House budget committee will come to order madam clerk, please call the roll Chair Deaton here vice chair Davidson Representatives Fogel black bogs Brown Chapel Christensen Crossley Cups Douglas Houseman Hine Calderlow Kimball Lewis Martin Mayhew Murray present Owen Proudy Riggs Sharp Steinhoff Steinmeier here Taylor Dell here Taylor Tim Vernetti Voss here Warwick young Okay quorum having been established good afternoon everyone welcome back look forward to having a good week and Of course today. We'll be hearing the fiscal year 2026 budget requests from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Commissioner if you'd like to come forward you have any opening remarks that you'd like to make just a reminder for everyone to introduce yourself first time at the microphone and Anyone testifying to provide any comments today will need to provide a witness form so thank you You may begin when you're when you're ready Touch First I want you to know that I usually have a very beautiful voice, but obviously that's not coming across today I want to thank you for the opportunity for us to visit with you all today we have plenty of people here from the department that will be able to answer lots of questions and So that you don't have to listen to this wonderful Voice that I have right now. I want you to know I feel great absolutely great We're looking forward to today and got up and could barely choke out a whisper so Anyway, Kelly Jones who's our deputy for learning services? She's going to provide my opening remarks so that you can actually understand what I'm trying to say so thank you all and so Kelly Jones All right, good morning, Kelly Jones deputy commissioner for learning services for the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Thank you for the opportunity to be here to present House bill to Investing in education has always been a priority for the state of Missouri, and we are pleased to see this commitment continue I will move quickly through my opening remarks considering all these investments have resulted in a stack of budget books you have in front of you today We appreciate your continued support and look forward to addressing any questions that you may have District and charter schools across our state continue to focus on advancing educational opportunities for students The department's focus has been on a variety of fronts Building capacity and quality in early childhood and child care Creating systems of support to enhance reading and math instruction and to address the mental health needs of students and staff Expanding access to real-world learning opportunities through increased career and technical education offerings and assessment redesign and Building the educator pipeline and retaining highly qualified staff We know it is those closest to the classroom who directly impact our students learning The governor has recommended a significant increase in funding for the foundation formula to assist our local school districts and charter schools in educating the almost 900,000 PK through 12 students enrolled in our public schools Under the existing statute we are required to recalculate the state adequacy target last year for FY 25 and FY 26 which resulted in an increase after five years at the same target level Dr. Monses will be addressing this in his comments during our testimony today and I'm sure there are questions on this topic We also prioritize a request to maintain full funding for transportation Transporting our children to and from school is required by state law and many Missouri families count on this service When it is not funded through the transportation formula budget line districts must find the money elsewhere often the classroom We are grateful that this body and the governor have fully funded the transportation formula and the governor have fully funded transportation for the past three years Our other requests aligned to the department's show me success plan and we demonstrate our commitment to improving lives through education While we will primarily focus on our PK through 12 system. You will see House Bill 2 serves Missourians at all points in life some in our office of childhood as early as birth and others in our adult learning and Rehabilitation services and special education offices in their adulthood Our show me success plan has four strategic priority areas early learning Literacy success ready and workforce development and Educator recruitment and retention and I'll walk through some highlights from each of these early learning Our goal is for each student to graduate prepared for success The research is clear that we want our students to have a proper finish. We must give them a proper start We are focused on making child care accessible and affordable for families while maintaining quality We are thankful Governor Kehoe has focused on this area both in terms of regulatory Reform and building the capacity of our child care systems We are requesting continued funding to expand pre-k education across the state With an emphasis on students from low-income backgrounds to be served by a quality pre-k program the year prior to kindergarten We want to provide more opportunities to serve our youngest learners both in private and public programs We also have a request to maintain full funding of early childhood Special education to help serve our most vulnerable pre-k students We also request continued funding to support higher subsidy reimbursement rates for child care providers to pay on enrollment and to pay prospectively at the start of the month instead of afterwards as a critical support for families and our overall state workforce second literacy Literacy is one of the cornerstones last year twelve thousand five hundred five K through five educators across the state were enrolled In or completed our language essentials for teachers of reading and spelling Also known as letters on the principles of the science of reading this year We are training approximately eight thousand teachers and ninety percent of our public schools have or has had one or more teachers in our letters program We need to continue this momentum Third second success ready students and workforce development Developing success ready students continues to be a key priority area for the State Board of Education and DESE While we cannot guarantee the success of every child shouldn't every child have the chance What does it mean to be ready for kindergarten for middle school for high school for the future? There are many pathways to success and they may look different for each student the FY 26 budget requests include Funds to support career and technical education program improvements and expansion in area career centers and their ongoing program costs additional funds to support career advisors in rural schools to help students access further education or training after graduation and lastly educator recruitment and retention None of this works. None of this work is possible without a dedicated and highly skilled educator workforce the classroom teacher is the number one school level factor that impacts students achievement as You may be aware Senate bill 727 raised the bar on teacher pay and we are slowly starting to see improvements in both recruitment and Retention we want to continue that momentum with funding for the teacher baseline salary grant program To provide a minimum salary of $40,000 for teachers across the state and a minimum of $46,000 for those with a master's degree and 10 years of experience The career ladder program which provides additional compensation to experienced teachers who take an additional duties and support students Continued support for the Missouri teacher development system and the Missouri leadership development system to support new teachers and to train school building Administrators on strategies to enhance the school climate and culture for students and staff Recruitment and retention are also very important for our state workforce We are thankful for the recent efforts to assist in this area and very appreciative of governor Kehoe's Recommendation to improve the salaries of those who have dedicated their career to the service of our state. I Want to transition now to where desi's? 1842 full-time employees serve Just over 650 serving classrooms in our 36 state operated schools across the state Another 650 in our adult learning and real rehabilitation services Which includes 25 VR offices 22 independent living centers and six disability determination offices There are 219 FTE in our office of childhood The remaining 291 FTE at desi work to support and monitor the 556 LEAs About 12% of our positions are vacant at any one time But this has certainly improved from the 15 to 18 percent that was not uncommon Uncommon prior to the recent investments in our state team members There are eight Missouri assistive technology Seven Commission for the deaf and hard of hearing and six, Missouri charter public schoolsCommission. I will close by saying thank you to all of you. Thank you for your public service. It is critical to move Missouri forward and into the right direction. I'm grateful for all the educators across the state of Missouri. I'm grateful for our DESE employees for their time and efforts that all of them spend in positively impacting our Missouri students. We appreciate your continued support and thanks again. Now I will ask Kerry Monsess, Deputy Commissioner of the Financial Administration Services, right here beside me, and he will walk us through the budget. Thank you, Kelly, and as you can tell, Kelly has a lot of energy. I'll introduce myself again. Kerry Monsess, Deputy Commissioner for Financial Administrative Services. This is my fifth year with the department and Kelly's going to transition off and I'm going to be joined by our Chief Budget Officer Pam Victor. Pam's actually the person who's going to walk us through the individual items and then I'll share some commentary as needed and try to help answer questions. And we do have several team members in the room that can help with questions as well as we go through this process. We're certainly appreciative of your time today and we'll try to move as quickly as we can but as always, stop us if you have questions and we'll try to do our best to answer them today and if not, get back to you as quickly as we possibly can with a follow-up. And so with that, Pam, whenever you're ready, you can start us off. Good afternoon, I'm Pam Victor, Chief Budget Officer for DESE. Just one housekeeping thing before I get started. For all these lovely people behind me, they have signed witness forms and for any that do get up and speak, I will put them in the box later. All right, if we could begin then on page 1. We're going to start with the department-wide request in book 1. Page 4 is the statewide pay plan recommended by the governor for $4.7 million. Page 15 is the pay plan pickup, say that three times fast, for $345,000 recommended by the governor. This is for a few of our federal funds that do not have room under their administrative cap to absorb the recommended pay increase. Can you help me understand this a little bit better? And I seem to ask, and maybe I'm never asking the right question, and you all aren't the only department that, you know, has made a request of a GR pickup and we've had over the pay plans over the last several years, and I don't think you're the only one this year with this pay plan. But as it relates to the GR pickup here, the $345,000 that's picking up what otherwise and previously and presumably could be paid with federal dollars and they're doing federal activities or on grants or what-have-you, would, is the cause the reason for the pickup that it would violate some CFR or the federal equivalent, or would doing this not violate the federal grant terms but would just necessarily reduce programmatic spending as in there's no more money to be had for the thing? What exactly is the cause of the need for the GR pickup as it relates to that? For some of them it is because there's no more spending that can be allocated towards salaries, and if we were to put more towards salaries we would have to reduce programmatic expenditures, and for others it may be the cap on the administrative spending itself. Can you give us a list of those and break those out as to the amounts per federal grant and then what the cause is, whether it's the administrative cap or if it would you know be the for programmatic reasons, and if you could identify I believe there is a federal nomenclature of catalog of federal domestic assistance, there's a number that's attributable if you could provide that as well just that we might be able to find it easier ourselves if we had mine to you know call up the federal government and and look at those ourselves that would be be very helpful on that, and then I'm also curious as it relates to the and I guess this really isn't maybe so much on this item I should have asked it on on for the statewide pay plan but to the extent it has any relation to the the pickup but really for the the statewide pay plan I guess on page four are you presuming or accounting for vacancies or are you asking for as if you were 100% fully staffed because the information I pulled it looked like it looks like for 24 your budgeted FTE was 1,803 and then the actual was 1,610 and you know I know there's always some of that people leave you don't get them hired and what-have-you there were it looks like 174 vacancies less than 12 months 128 six months or greater and the rest of them are somewhere in between there so does this pay plan presume a hundred percent fully staffed all the time how do you calculate that no it was not it was based on the individual staff person and their length of time with the state so vacant positions would not be eligible to get any increases okay so this was this this pay plan only considers and presumes folks currently on the state payroll because if they haven't been here ten years there's no retention bonus to be had and we presume if we hire somebody today and they stay ten years then that guy that's here ten years but maybe won't be here it all is gonna work out in the end and everybody that doesn't get a retention it's 1% is that your understanding am I remembering that right no I'm as I if I'm recalling how Dan hog explained that I think that 1% that was for that already got the retention yes the Department of Corrections folks who already are under this retention pay structure and anybody else that I think there were a few others that that got it okay I understand that appreciate that any other additional inquiries questions on the the pay plan we have right now okay you can continue thank you next on page 19 this is the core for the financial and administrative services operations this is what we use to pay out the state aid to the school financing this is the school food services so the internal operations of the department's 79 FTE and a governor recommendation of six million dollars real quick on 22 can you help me on the top of 22 there there's a core core reallocation three lines they're all PS but there's no dollars or FTE attributable there that I see can you just what exactly was happening there so that's a function of movers and those were a few positions that weren't broken out as they should have been when those positions were reclassified and so we moved them out of the large classification they were in and into the specific job title that that person has now and we did that so that's just in and out and why it shows as a zero there so the dollars didn't move sections or anything like that it's clearly like a job class function right they moved from like an assistant director to an agency budget analyst so same pay structure just different job title okay all right thank you for the explanation page 25 then is the core for the summer EBT program governor recommendation for four hundred and four thousand dollars and two FTE this is to provide the $40 per eligible child during the summer months for grocery buying for low-income families we do this in partnership with the Department of Social Services representative Taylor you have an inquiry may proceed on the next page 26 the unexpected funds can you give a little more background on this program and its effectiveness sure this is a brand new program this is the first year that's been in operation it was new for the summer of 2024 and we had a late supplemental edition and that's why you don't see any of the funds expended in FY 24 but for this most recent summer my understanding were we're responsible to help with the determination of who's eligible because we have data from the schools that DSS needs in order to identify the students were eligible make payments are my latest figures I have is that they've issued benefits to 383 thousand kids to roughly a total of forty six million dollars this is just our portion of admin for two FTE and some IT related costs to collect the data that we need to send on to them for for them to process program so this was a new program did we actually assist with these EBT payments last summer summer of 24 it was for the summer of 24 but as I understand that benefits didn't get issued till in the fall okay and these two admin are now in place and will be ready for the summer of 25 we have one that has been hired and the second one they're interviewing at this time as I understand it so we should be ready excellent thank you sir Douglas do you have a inquiry you may proceed on the back pay for the families that should have gotten the payment in 24 will they be paid those retro dollars that's what that's what this 46 million is for the summer of 24 even though it was after the fact and how soon did they were able to access those payments the reason I ask is because I had several families were unable to access those those dollars I think that might be a question for DSS they're they're doing the benefit administration our role was to collect eligibility information from the schools and we forward that on to them so I don't know that I could answer that specifically but my understanding is anybody that we identified as eligible assume we'd bear assuming we have verified they met the criteriahave been processed to the extent possible. If there are any that are still missing because of incomplete information or uncertainty as to which school district they were actually enrolled in, I think that might be a question for DSS. Thank you. Page 30 is the core for the school broadband. This has been core reduced to zero because this program is now complete. These projects are done. 100% of the schools have the minimum bandwidth of 100 kilobytes per second and so we're recommending that this be closed out. Page 35 is the core for the foundation formula. Governor recommendation of 3.6 million dollars for an SAT of six hundred and seventy six thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars for about eight hundred and eighty seven kids on a weighted average daily attendance. Page 42. On 30 35 really 37 but on that core item you know for a number of years you look at 24 the lapse was 58 million 23 57 and that's other funds there was GR and 22 and other for a total of 90 million in lapse and so can you help us understand or because there's not really you know there's no explanation provided herein as to you know why the lapse is occurring so can what do you attribute that to and can you kind of walk us through why we've we've seen that? So for those time periods coming out of COVID our weighted average daily attendance which is the pupil count within the formula was running below pre COVID times and that resulted in a lower call on the overall formula and that lower lower call on the formula led to some lapse. With the process of budgeting for this year and in a few minutes I'll be ready to kind of walk through what the NDI is based on in the history of that change but for the sake of this it was just due to the lower student numbers in those particular years. But have we seen student I mean I and I truly don't know the answer to this question but have we seen student numbers totally recover from the pandemic because even before COVID I mean it's been a while since I've looked at it but it's not like we've been growing one two three five six percent a year you know I think student numbers are at or maybe a little bit below what they'd been if you look ten plus years ago maybe right and so is it is is that really seemingly gonna change or I don't even know if the word is recover but grow? Right so the numbers of actual students enrolled has not been growing if anything it's been on a very slow decline over a period of time with a little bit of an extra dip at COVID that rebounded the next following year but then there's still slowly declining just ever so slightly but the calculation of students in the formulas layered on top of that it's a weighted average daily attendance that includes potentially the number of students are free and reduced lunch IP what-have-you and so the actual student counts that go into the formula can be increasing even though the enrollment is decreasing and so we are seeing especially with the provisions of 727 in play we are seeing numbers of weighted average daily attendance will be going up. But that's and but 727 Scott which we're gonna obviously get to that as you mentioned but if we fund the 727 provisions for and I assume you're have to be alluding to like enrollment attendance provision that starts to be phased in 90 10 80 20 so on so forth that's got to have implications. Absolutely and there's one other one that I would share with you and we can talk more about that as we walk through the NDI but part of the calculation has to do with those number of students that are above that are free and reduced lunch above a certain threshold and when the SAT was recalculated as part of this recalculation we did a year ago the free and reduced lunch percentage of the districts in that performance group dropped nearly in half and that led to additional student waiting for those students who are free and reduced lunch eligible in many districts so they got an extra bump on that because of the threshold changing. So set the SAT pay piece aside but on the 727 side of the ledger if we which hasn't happened yet admittedly we haven't even truly got to that NDI but just you're presuming we fund those 727 NDIs because those are reflecting the fiscal notes like we knew it would have a change we still have the question of the existing core and is it where it needs to be because for the the new add-ons additions the formula which would require greater call as a result of 727 if we fund those NDIs then you know that should be accounted for should it not? It should. So it's still it has a question of the core you know are we right sized or not and you know it was 58 million in 2457 I mean almost the same number it was a little bit higher in 22 so we definitely came down a little bit but I guess my question is like how how do we what is the projection and how do you go how do you arrive at you know the the thinking or the belief that we actually do need this authority that heretofore has you know lapsed in in previous years because again the student counts although maybe have recovered from the pre COVID levels it doesn't seem as though it's although I appreciate and understand there are other implications. Yeah so so the biggest driver of this particular year fiscal year 25 that we're in now was the increase in the state adequacy target so we went from a 6,375 adequacy target to 6,760 for this fiscal year that number ate up all the existing capacity that we had identified. Let me stop you right there could that really be true because there was a it was I forget what the NDI for the formula was for FY 25 say this time last year was it 120 million or something I think the actual SAT change for that year was maybe 150 and we actually figured in some laps maybe I missed remembering that but whatever the NDI was correct me if I'm wrong for the foundation formula for this fiscal year we the General Assembly funded that did we not so I mean that but again so that should be that should have been that would have been factored into that NDI that we funded so that really so again like I just don't I'm struggling to see how that implicates the core if we now this fiscal year would granted be different depending on where we come down which is kind of a different conversation although it certainly will matter in the end but it just for argument oh let's assume we funded everything we funded the 727 provisions we threw in another 300 million for the SAT for 26 I guess I say all that to say I feel like we come back here next year and I'd see 58 million lapsed in the and that's where I'm like how why would that not be the case well so and part of maybe there's a different way to explain it that might help a little bit and so the NDI for this year the FY 25 was 120 million and we indicated last year at this time that we our best estimate would be about 300 million as you say for the next fiscal year to get that next step they would if we were fully utilizing the the current formula amount for FY 25 for say for FY 24 if we were fully utilizing it those two increases would have likely been very much very similar but instead of 300 million for this current year we only needed a hundred and twenty million for two reasons one we had lapsed that we were absorbing and two schools were rolling off of pandemic provisions that allowed them to claim attendance back from the beginning of the pandemic and and so they had two or three years of buffer that was exhausted or rolling off if you will so the student count in the actual formula was dropping at the same time so instead of having two years of 300 million last year's or from the one for this fiscal year was only 120 because we were dropping in student counts and we had lapsed that we were absorbing both of those things were part of that equation otherwise it would have been a larger number okay that's all I have on the core probably ask some more questions the NDI on the core itself and and I know it they they nevertheless interact but before we get strictly to the NDI increase on the core representative Chapel you may proceed Thank You mr. chair how are you sir good and how are you ma'am all right so I've been here only three years there are other people who've been here far longer and have far more expertise in this than do I so I'm only asking the questions to be informed but in my first year here we went back and looked at three years prior so I have six years of information and for six years Desi has carried anywhere from 1.2 to 1.4 billion dollars in laps year over year over year that's accurate right I would have to look at some figures but there's definitely laps yeah and a couple of questions that I have first off if you look on page 37 in 22 we lapsed 51 million dollars in GR and only 30 I say only but 39 million and and I'm gonna use the word federal even though that's not accurate it's the national government but federal money and other money 39 million which at least we were spending expending the other funding prior to the what GR but for the last few years in almost all of these pages GR is gone and we have a lapse of federal and other now I recognize that the national government requires that we pay a portion on most of this grant funding that we get I totally understand that but are we spendingpossible other source of revenue prior to touching those GR dollars? So in this particular case on the formula the other represents other state monies like lottery, gaming, cigarette tax, things of that sort. So in that particular case it's not any federal dollars involved there. But in many other grants the typical spin patterns that we would see is that we have, and we'll use special education maybe as an example, school districts get the large majority of those funds allocated to them and when we typically have a federal grant and we're making payments to districts on that federal grant that spans oftentimes three different fiscal years because their federal government's on a different fiscal year so there's a three-month lag there, there's a year's worth of carryover plus the most current year's worth of grant. So our challenge in many ways is knowing when the school districts are going to make those requests for those funds. And quite frankly we can't control that. Whenever they have a qualified expenditure and they request the funds we're supposed to reimburse them in a timely fashion with that. And so as far as just the overall concept of lapse, that's part of the reason why we have it. Because we're operating in three different grant years in any particular year and we don't necessarily control when the money is drawn. So that setting that aside then typically we would want to spend federal dollars first if we can in situations where it's within the bounds of the requirements that we do that. So as long as they don't restrict us from doing that we would want to spend federal dollars first if we can. Yeah I understand that's the general philosophy but is that what's actually taking place? Because I'm not I'm not seeing that in every instance. If there's an example of one we need to dig in further and provide additional info I'm glad to do that. I mean this is one of them right here. We've gone all the way to zero on general revenue and we still have 58 million dollars and other funding that's possible. One other thing I need to clarify too, some of those other funds are capacity numbers and there may or may not be cash to support them. So for example if the assumption was we were going to use say 20 million dollars worth of cigarette tax money in here but the cash was only 15 million it'll show up as 5 million of lapse potentially here even though there was no cash to support it. That's fairly common within the formula itself. Yeah I'm familiar with the process of the budgeting and how lapse works. I appreciate that information. As it relates to the core foundation however, I have spent some time in the form nines for the department. You all, the form nines for some of the committee members that are newer to the budgetary process, the form nines lists the starting balance for each fund. Now government accounting is different from private accounting, whether corporate or individual, in that we use fund accounting. Excuse me. And these funds are individually identified as different sources of revenue, different sometimes the taxpayers have dedicated a specific fund to a specific task and it can't be used for anything else. Sometimes it's created by a federal grant and it can't be used for anything outside of that but all of the funds together combined are what the revenue sources are for the entire department and writ large the entire government. Is that an accurate reflection? And then in each of the form nines there is an estimated revenue expected for that fund and that's produced by you all, is that right, along with the CRE? It's okay, so you all do that. And then out of that there is an expected expenditure out of that fund and I presume that's produced by you all as well. And you all try to be as accurate with that as you possibly can obviously because that's what we all do. And then what's left over is the fund balances that are anticipated for the remainder of the year, correct? And whatever's left over is going to be in large degree the starting balance for the next fiscal cycle. Do you have any idea what the expected unexpended amounts of money there are in your department's form nines for this coming fiscal year? We don't have that totaled up with us. I do. It's 937 million dollars that you all are telling us you do not anticipate spending this year and yet you still need the authority to be delegated to you this year. In 2024 at the end of the day, which is the only numbers we have thus far because 2025 won't be over for a few months, 2024 it looks to me like the unexpended amount the lapse is 1.5 billion dollars, which is more than I've seen in the three years I've been here and more than the three years that was prior to me being here. If we're lapsing a billion and a half and you do not intend to spend almost a billion of it and that's just the big numbers. That's just the ones, I mean this is not all of your form nines, it's a much thicker stack than that, but just these here that have been identified by the staff and I've gone through and done the calculations, it's 937 million dollars that you're telling us you don't intend to spend and yet you still want the appropriation authority to have it. I'd sure like to know why that is. Well I'm gonna share one example where I think that could happen and I'll use the relief funds for example. So one of those funds is federal relief funds and we had a large allocation under the ARPA Act for schools, nearly two billion dollars in total. And so our approach there through the budgeting process has been we started with the full appropriation amount and then we've just been gradually as we spend down the money we've been lowering that appropriation amount from year to year. But at any point in time the appropriation amount is tied to what the available balance was some six months prior likely or maybe even longer than that whenever the budget was established. So there's always a trailing indicator as we spend down those relief funds. So that's one example where I think there would be lots of excess capacity. When we get to the S for three funds that are in this budget you'll see kind of a similar thing happening where it'll show six hundred and some odd million dollars there. We have been in a process where we work with staff to reduce that number down to actual at some point during this spring process so that there's not carrying a lot of extra if we can. But invariably we do that say March 1st there's gonna be expenditures from there to the end of June that don't get accounted for. Yeah I'm glad you brought that one up because that is form or that is fund 2434. The governor's recommendation is 90 million dollars almost 91 out of this out of this fund. 91 million. The appropriation request is seven hundred and twenty seven million dollars but the anticipated unexpended appropriation based on y'all's numbers is six hundred and thirty six million dollars. And in fact based again on the form 9's your calculations if it were if the appropriated amount were actually expended this fund would be in the whole six hundred million dollars which is illegal and can't be done. So if we know we're not spending the money and we know that we would cross the line of legality if we even tried to. Why in the world are we asking for that amount of appropriation? Sir, our intent with that particular one is to lower it based on actual expenditure. Let's lower it to nothing. You don't have it. There are liquidation extensions in play that there will be some of this money that needs to be available for next year but not anywhere near the amount. Well then why are you asking for all of it? We made our request back in September based on the data we had at the time. But you've carried 1.2 to 1.4 billion laps for six years. Are we not are we not picking up on it or what's the problem? Well we we needed to be able to demonstrate that we had the overall authority to spend the grant and so we have been working to bring that down over time as those funds are spent. I don't I don't question your sincerity. I don't can question I don't question your dedication to the process. But when the math isn't mathing, I have to ask why. And especially given that the ESSER funds are running out this year. Is that not correct? We have a liquidation extension for approximately 66 million. For how long? It goes through at least March of 26. So that's 10% of what we're asking for. And we are. What about the other 90? We would intend to lower that amount during this process. Mr. Chair, I as you know, I find I find laps of this nature. Not just for DESE. They're just the ones that are here today. But laps of this nature where we are carrying in the departments hundreds of millions of dollars. Nearly a billion in this department. Half a billion in other departments that we've already seen. And the list goes on and on and on. And we're carrying this type of lapse and unintended expenditures and yet we want the full appropriation. I find it completely and totally unacceptable from a governmental perspective to have our budgets be over inflated at these high rates when nobody actually intends to spend the money. And I think it is incumbent upon this committee and yourself and I'm here to help. You know, I was Doge before Doge was cool. I'm here to help. But we've got to right-size this budget. I'm not I'm not trying to belittle anybody in the departments but we've always done it this way is not a good enough reason to continue on and I I know I can count on your support and your guidance and leadership and I look to you sir for the help that we all so desperately need. Thank you. You're representative and when we get some of those items specifically we can I'm sure you know as we make our way there you'll help us identify what the actuals have been.what we can what we can reduce those down to to reflect actuals on the foundation formula core and again we'll go through all these items throughout the afternoon and evening but let's try to at this point and we have a number of inquiries here lined up which is fine but let's make sure we you know confine our inquiry to the to the core and if you have questions on something else or comments then we'll save those for when we get to that point in the book so with that representative Fogle you are recognized thank you I just had a quick question about the sports wagering for education fund fund 1244 is this the first time in the budget that we use that fund yes and is this the only place that that fund will be used okay and when can you remind me when do we expect deposits into that fund to start happening is at the end of the calendar year that will expect revenue as a department we don't have that specific information we'd have to confer with budget and planning to see what the thought there is but okay and do you have any estimates on how much you expect to be deposited into that year or into that fund over the next fiscal year I know you're not planning to spend a ton in this but no we really don't have and the expectation okay the governor just felt that that would be an appropriate place to to start spending the fund out of correct okay thank you thank you for that representative do you know offhand what the what the authority what the amount is on 1244 as it relates to that's probably on here if I could read quick enough if you flip to page 39 okay there are numerous court funding changes going on here so the first line the 32 million is a reduction for gaming proceeds second line is a reduction for lottery revenues because those two aren't coming in at the level they were coming in when we were spending the balance down last year these two correspond to a hundred and fifty million dollar new decision item that we'll talk about later the next is a general revenue reduction of seven million thirty eight thousand that is to offset an increase in county foreign tax revenues also a new decision item we'll discuss later the next one is then two hundred and sixty four thousand five thirty five this is a reallocation between the state schools money fund and the outstanding school trust fund to spending down balance is there the next is two million nine hundred twenty four thousand one ninety two this is a reduction out of the classroom trust fund and in from lottery that reduction represents the unclaimed prizes that have been spent down as well and then the last set of adjustments one thousand eighty four one million eighty four thousand that is replacing lottery proceeds with expected sports wagering revenues so it's it's a million eighty four thousand sixty six dollars is what of that's really something of more than 3.6 billion it's a million eighty four thousand sixty six dollars I gotta go listen to those commercials again that's not what I remember but anyway thank you for drawing my attention to that representative Mayhew you're recognized to talk about the core of the formula just gentlemen my questions will be on the ND eyes thank you for the recognition I will let me hold off and we'll come back to you yes I'll reserve your place thank you on the on the core formula in generally speaking representative black who's not here representative black do you have something on the core of the formula and if so you're recognized thank you very much mr. chair I was following up on the question that the chair had with regard to the current fiscal year for and 120 million and your comment that that was somehow reduced by lapse which confused me so if you forget lapse just to do the math did the formula result in additional call for this fiscal year for 120 million dollars yes yes and the lapse that you mentioned is that included in the formula calculation yes okay so when you say the formula called for 120 million more this year that included as part of the statutory formula for lapse that amount of money it absorbed the lapse and it also was the overall call was reduced by the student numbers going down in the in the actual calculations otherwise it would have been a much larger the WADA is the biggest factor in the whole formula right right and so okay so do you remember off the top of your head the language in the statute that requires the incorporation of the lapse more or less for us it was just a simple budgeting approach to where we take the overall call the formula with any of the most available data that we have whenever we do that right we say here's what the overall call the formula is here's what our existing appropriation amount and it's just the gap in between okay 120 million dollars at that point hadn't had had we not been rolling off of what I would call hold harmless attendance rates from kovat that number would have been higher had we not had the 58 million in lapse capacity there that number would have been higher so that's why it's so much lower than the 300 million dollars that we were estimating for FY 26 why what's so much lower 120 versus the 300 correct yeah okay but you didn't do any you didn't plug and chug any additional dollars into the formula it's just that's the way that's the way it rolled out compared to the previous year am I correct using six thousand seven hundred and sixty as the estate adequacy target that's the other driver so the laps is just naturally included by statute well again in this particular case it was just the the math of the difference between the call in the formula and the available appropriation and is that the statutory requirement I don't know if there's a statute that governs how that works but the statutory requirement is outlined in the calculation of the SAT and then we use the estimates that we have for weighted average daily attendance and things of that sort it's a combination of factors that use we use to generate the actual projected call in the formula okay and really my question is simply this there's a statute direct the way that current call was done or is there some administrative element to that that is separate and apart from the statutory language well the one thing I would qualify is that we do have to use a series of estimates in order to generate that overall call because just to use an example in student attendance our student count numbers districts are using the highest of the current year the prior year or the second preceding year and in this particular case we're looking at FY 26 for example we don't have FY 25 yet and we certainly don't have FY 26 what we have is 22 23 and 24 and we use those three years as our most recent complete years to build that number so that's our that's our process to go through to try to establish what the overall call is going to be just because that's the most recent data that we have and do those estimates that you just discussed and the other statutory elements of the formula naturally incorporate the lapse element that you said reduce the call last year this year this current year they would naturally do that as part of that process yes thank you the one caveat I do need to add to that though is that again the if we use say lottery as an example there are a handful of revenue sources that feed that formula and if any one of them is short it would show up as potential lapse and it may just be because the cash wasn't there to fund it at that level so but all part of the calculation yes thanks representative Steinhoff you recognize for an inquiry thank you mr. chair I I want it I don't know how I'm gonna ask this but I want to get at the idea that we know that we're spending it seems more every year on total foundation formula expenses but if we were to look back at 2007 which and I'm picking that year you probably know because that's when the SAT remained flat for a long time while the SAT was flat the foundation formula amount that we would be sending to districts could still be going up because of many other factors is that correct so if you're going clear back to 2007 there's the first seven years of this formula there was a phase in percentage where you were paid a percentage based on the old formula and a percentage based on the new formula and that mix changed every year all your other factors could be the same and you would be drawing additional funds out of the formula because it's doing that transition it was it was moving about 14% per year was a seven-year phase in so there there's there are reasons within the mechanics of the formula it could be going up even if your individual student counts may not be changing as an example in more recent times we went through a period of about five years where the state actually target was flat at six thousand three hundred seventy five at that during that period of time if all other things stayed equal there were still legislative changes that were happening one would be House Bill 1552 that changed how we fund local effort to the charter schools for example so that could create an additional call on the formula and overall cost of the formula even though an individual districts may not their their individual numbers may not be changing so there could be legislative changes the dollar value modifier is another item in the formula it's calculated every single year and so it goes up and down by county or by region in the state and so it could be changing the overall call the formula just because of themechanism that's built into the statute and so again your student counts may not be saying changing any but the amount you receive ultimately is impacted by everybody's numbers across the state right and including changes to the groups that get the weights right as far as population changes correct so when I think about looking at how that SAT it really has grown about 10% in the last I don't know almost 20 years the SAT itself and I know that doesn't mean the foundation formula only grew 10% but if I'm hearing you right a lot of the changes in the foundation formula could be for different things than we really looked at back in 2007 so if we were to think about the money that we were given to districts 20 years ago they still have a lot of those expenses now is it fair to say it's about the same I mean the difference in what we're giving them now for those expenses is only whatever the percentage change in the SAT was it's not quite that straightforward the SAT itself grows at a slower rate than the CPI if you will but the overall funding of the formula I would say is tracked closer to the CPI than it has the change in the SAT and I'll give you some real numbers on that as an example the SAT when the formula first started was 6,117 and at 7,145 which it's projected for identified for next year that's about just under 17% increase the actual additional expenditures in the form of the additional call in the formula is somewhere closer to 55% at the governor's recommendation over that entire life of the formula which is probably fairly comparable but that's also including a lot of new requirements it's including changes in population that have higher needs for our students yeah all those factors go into it the student population changes the thresholds for those weightings in the formula itself dollar value legislative legislative changes all those things contribute to that okay so if I I guess you you were a former superintendent as well right so if you think about a superintendent that's trying to think about how to pay the bills when the money coming in is not going at the same rate which area of the school budget takes the biggest hit do you think well I would tell you in the foundation formula 75% is required to go into the certified fund the teachers fund and on average across the state about 85% typically goes into that fund so for that particular large source of revenue a lot of that's going to your certificated educators but you can transfer out of that fund into operations right not from not the 75% you can't 75% it has to stay in okay thank you thank you mr. chair representative Lewis you're recognized for an inquiry yeah I'm gonna try to try to make this brief I really just wanted to ask a few questions do you actually have answered many of my questions I think it's getting a little more clear to people so you're looking at this year I mean as to the chairs questions about are we going to be 50 million dollars in laps in that three point seven eight five and the answer is I don't know you're probably going to be somewhat lapsed because we have each year but that's what you think with your best estimates of your averages that you're doing the average daily attendance times in by what we think you know free and reduced lunch kids and all the other things that go into the formula that's what you think is going to be there but it's probably going to have a little bit of lapse in it is that correct me if I'm wrong well the place yes you're I think you're correct but I would tell you that if lottery by for example was estimated by 30 million dollars more than what the cash is going to be at the end of the year it's gonna look like we were had laps when it really just was a matter of the cash wasn't there to support it you're right and so some of those things at the bottom we know that you know you're saying that you know the other funds were probably lottery proceed funds unexpended because didn't we dip into lottery funds quite a bit and then of course that was all fine and dandy when we're having 300 million you know 300 700 million billion dollar lotteries and everything 300 that doesn't get anybody out but a billion dollars more people coming out buying the lottery tickets and then then we have a little bit more money in that lottery fund which goes into education but this year we didn't the next year we know we're not and so we're trying to think well that that 50 million dollars actually in there right if that was lottery funds that wasn't even there well in this particular case it probably was I'm just using that as an example or next year as hypothetical for next year correct so we might be pretty close actually on the number but perhaps we'd we'd be we'd be oversized on those are that number on the other on page 37 all three of those when you say other gaming for other funds lottery classroom proxy money so the examples will be lottery cigarette tax gaming funds gaming fun for gaming right prop season a separate bucket if you will okay but the I would say the gaming fund for next year's a million you know that's gonna be a big change for us right for the million from the just a joke okay so I would say big yeah I was that was a joke a millions not very much the last thing though you know I see that we understand that there was the water went for our not with SAT went from 63 75 which it had been for five six years five years went to six thousand seven hundred sixty after msip six that was in 2025 and for 2026 it's going to go to six thousand seven thousand 145 since that is the is my esteemed colleague said what's the inflationary part well that is the kind of inflationary part right that's how you kind of start we we included the six you can include the 6760 in our calculation last year right and that's what we funded on was that 6760 should have been about 300 million we didn't put a 300 million in there because of a couple of other things that you've already talked about correct correct but the 300 million for this next year in your department which was next is the next slides we won't talk about it yet but that will be later what about in the supplemental for this year for the other pieces of s 727 did we we already put that piece in some of those other pieces into the supplemental correct the supplemental would include the items that are in effect for this current fiscal year right so that does include the SAT piece up to 6760 well there's no additional for that since we were already at that level for the right fiscal year so it's just not additional but those other things would have been additionally on top of that correct right and that would have had all the subtractions out of things that we'd already you know the fewer students that there were because there has been a slow reduction 1% a year maybe a reduction of students statewide but and then of course there was a change from 4 to 8 for number of students that are in the pre-k realm those things were all included in that how much was that supplemental like I can't remember first exactly what it was I believe it's 47 million right that's good that's okay wait that's that's fine I appreciate that I think that that helps a lot make sure and I think on the NDA in the NDI next I think we'll have questions on it appreciate it thank you representative Riggs you recognize for an inquiry. Thank you Mr. chairman two real quick questions and please get these to the committee members offline at your earliest convenience number one how much were all the school districts sitting on the reserves in this state as of January 1st 2025 second question what was the interest on the reserves statewide as of January 1st 2025 thank you Mr. chairman can I do a quick follow-up there we wouldn't have that for January 1st but I would have it for June 30th of 24 that would be the best that good enough okay okay representative cups and I think we're to go to the NDI you recognize representative X thank you chairman thank you for being here this afternoon director thank you for being with us I have to ask did you have a personal conversation with our chairman at any time in the last couple weeks because if you'll recall he was suffering from a very similar situation yeah and so I think if there's anyone we can blame this morning it's probably potentially our chairman no I do want to genuinely thank you for coming this morning or excuse me this afternoon most of my questions were actually asked in the last couple inquiries I know hold harmless wasn't mentioned at all but that does play into it and the one thing for some I remember when I was new on this committee and so there we do have some new members and so the one thing and with the conversation we've had about laps I want to go back to like Southern Berry County and really really simplify it because you've done an excellent job but I would hate to be listening online right now just because of some of the seemingly it's it can be kind of confusing but we are drawing out of what nine funds here at the least and some of those we appropriate out of fairly heavily particularly I'm going to use for example the lottery proceeds fund you know we we really just that's like our 16 year old Jersey milk cow we just like to milk her all we can and it's no secret that it may especially with the great games that we have out there and some discussions already been had by this committee the potential that some of those jackpots aren't high what you can blame it on whatever you want to blame it on but the lottery may not be hitting its transfers for the first time since I've been here and then that would create a situation where we were having to shore that up with money from these other funds particularly potentially general revenue and so just for example if we had 500 million that was appropriate out of that fund and it only came in at 400 million then we're going to have to have we would we would sure as heck want to make sure that wehad $500 million of appropriation authority, correct? That way we could spend all that we, this body, decided we wanted to out of that fund for its intended purpose. But if it came in at the 80 percentile level, that's gonna be $100 million shy. And so we would then have to have that appropriation authority somewhere else. It may potentially be already built in, or you would have to come back and ask for it in a supplemental, correct? Okay, and so we do have a situation where because of the funds, the nature of the way, this is a $3.6 billion appropriation. I don't know, is there anywhere else other than maybe MoDOT that we have a $3.6 billion one-line appropriation? I don't know, but I doubt it. Yeah, I really doubt it too. I can say with confidence that I doubt it. But we do have a situation where because of the nature of those funds, and we don't know if some of those funding, the revenue sources for those funds are gonna hit their transfers, we do need to have a little bit of appropriation authority from what I would classify, and this isn't a budgetary term, but the shore-up funds. We need to have that built in in case that those revenues don't come into the fund. Because we always want you to spend it out of the source, i.e., lottery proceeds funds, if the money's there, but if the money's not there, you'd have to dip in somewhere else. I think the other way I would describe that, kind of on the flip side, is that if we've got these five sources of funds that are coming in to feed the formula, and if we hit every one of them exactly right in our estimate, we'll be good. But to the extent we get any of them off by just a little bit, if we don't have any, or we're short on one, if we don't have any other capacity in another, then our response at that point is to lower the SAT in the calculation. Because there is a mechanism in the statute that says we lower that SAT. You beat me to it. Whatever dollar figure. I was gonna ask if that's what you ended up doing. That's correct. Okay. And we've been really fortunate for a period of years. We did not talk beforehand, by the way. Correct. Yep, okay. And I'm just gonna be blunt this morning. I would foresee, this is something that this body's probably gonna have to discuss at greater length at some point. I would foresee that that lottery proceeds fund is probably gonna continue to decrease with the gaming machines that are out. Call them whatever you want to. I call them illegal gambling machines. But with the sheer number of illegal gambling machines that are out there right now, that number is probably gonna continue to decrease. The other thing is, let's face it. The chairman already mentioned about going back and watching those commercials. The sports wagering and education fund is not gonna have hardly any money in it in comparison. It's not. And so we could probably see, as the lottery proceeds fund goes down, that's run by the state now. Heck of a lot of, all the money goes to it other than administrative fees. All that money within sports wagering goes for profit. And we get just a little itty bitty bit. And so as lottery proceeds funds goes down 10, we'll only see that sports wagering fund probably go up by one, if not less than that. And so this is something that we're going to have to be mindful of because we sure want to appropriate for if those transfers are being met. But the realistic outlook is that with our current climate, the likelihood of that not happening is pretty high. Would you not concur with that? I'm not an expert on all those revenue streams, but it seems reasonable. Okay. Last question, or actual question is, say we did project it was gonna come in. We appropriate for 50 things out of that lottery proceeds fund. Say it was, the total of that was $500 million. And it came in at 400 million, which 80%. And so we're sitting at a situation where that fund only has 80% of what we would like to be able to use at it. Out of those 50 things that we have it appropriated for, who makes the decision? And I know the answer to it, but who makes the decision as to where that money goes first? So if there's a shortfall in the lottery funds as example, and this has happened over time, as I understand it, although I don't know that it has happened in the five years I've been here. It hasn't since I've been here. Yeah. So it's been less recent. But I think the decision making usually typically happens at the budget and planning level in terms of how those get allocated. And the history has been, as I understand it, is the formula itself is the biggest pot, typically, of those lottery funds. And that's the one that absorbs it when it's short, typically. So all those individual line items that are much smaller typically get funded first, and then the hope is that maybe there's enough flexibility. Well, that's why I brought it up, is because in other places in government, if you have an appropriation and the fund is short of that appropriation authority, then it doesn't get funded. And so in this particular situation, what we're saying is, okay, we appropriate at a certain level, and then the fund is short. We're gonna fund everything else, which leaves this particular, the core, short, and then we short. Because we have the built-in to, kind of to my colleague's point, because this is the only place that we have the shore-up built-in, this is the place that would be funded last, even though that may not be this body's intent. It's because this is the place where we have that appropriation authority shore-up built-in. So then everything that we fund out of that particular source, even though the fund is only at 80% of what we appropriated it for, it all gets funded at 100%, and then this, we end up shoring up out of GR. Is it feasible, and this may be a question for someone else, but is it feasibly possible for us to include language that says, hey, we're gonna appropriate this out of lottery proceeds fund, but if lottery proceeds fund comes in at 80% of what our anticipated target, you know, what the transfers are, then it only gets funded at 80%. That everything, you know, kind of that sink source type of a relationship that if the fund is short, then everything that we appropriated out of that fund only gets funded at an equal percentage out of that fund instead of it being creatively appropriated seemingly the way it has been in the past. Well, I don't know if I would describe it as creative. I would just say that from a percentage impact perspective, it's gonna have the least amount of impact in this big, large overall amount, and so my guess is, and it's just a guess, my guess is that that's probably the rationale that's been used over time. It has an impact, obviously, here, but in other cases, it might have, percentage-wise, a much bigger impact because it's the entire funding and mechanism for some of these other line items. Well, it's a heck of a lot easier for me to message to my constituents that, you know, when we're talking about all these gaming issues and everything else, that the reason that education is being funded at maybe a lesser level than what was requested is because the fund doesn't have the money in it than to say, oh, we are gonna go ahead and fund every other thing out of this source until there's none left, and then it be a decision that we have to short this particular, you know, short the core GR, and then what do you know? Everybody's calling us, saying, what are you guys doing, you know, coming after education, if you will? Well, and I just wanna clarify that all the different line items with lottery are within education, essentially, so they're either higher education or one of our lines within the DESE bucket, if you will, so, and the number of different line items has gone up over the last handful of years for one particular project or another through this process, but it is within education, it's just where within education is the shortfall? Gregory, yeah, I understand. We can talk more about it offline. The reason that I waste the committee's time discussing this is more, I think we're gonna have to worry about it. I'm making the actual assumption that this is probably something that we're gonna have to be looking at this year. It is something that we've not had to look at, I believe, since the chairman and myself have been here, and so I just want the message to be very clear that that's probably a situation that we're gonna be facing, and we need to have pretty strong communication on how exactly that's gonna work, because we're gonna have people asking us those questions. Thank you. Okay, page 42, and we've, you know, referenced it a time or two, but, you know, you might have some explanation you wanna give. I've seen a pretty big item, and there's clearly gonna be some inquiries, but to the extent you have any overview or introductory comments you wanna provide, please proceed on the formula increase. Several of the points that I was gonna share we've kind of talked about through the course of the dialogue so far on the core, but I think it might be worth a little bit of time to give a little history here about the formula itself and how it plays into the calculations that led to this NDI, if you will. Obviously, we've talked about the formula goes back to 2005 legislative session. It was implemented in the 2006, 2007 school year. Within it, there's a mechanism to recalculate the state adequacy target every two years, and it's prescribed by statute. That statute has been changed a couple of times. It was, there's a throttle involved in that statute that was taken off when the loss limits came off the riverboats, and then it was put back on a few years later after we figured out we couldn't fund the SAT at the level that was calculated at that time, so it has gotten changed from time to time, but we did end up at a sort of an equilibrium phase under the MSIP5 criteria, and we were stuck at $6,375 for five years, and that's not a whole lot above the $6,117 that we started at way back in 2006, so with all the machinations that happened over time, there hadn't been a significant change in that.SAT for a good period of time. With M76 and the higher standards that were built within that, school districts didn't score as well. And so the districts that were identified as performance districts that were driving the SAT calculation shrank considerably from, it's capped right now at 25% of districts, so about 125 districts, down to a shorter list of 35 districts. Those 35 districts had different characteristics. They had lower free and reduced lunch counts, students, and they also had higher expenditure history, if you will, that went into this calculation. So that's precipitated a fairly significant jump at one point, a period of time from 63.75, clear up to the 7,145 that it's calculated now. Now during that two year recalculation cycle, any increase is phased in over those two years. You do half of it the first year on the SAT, half of it the second. Well that half is not the total dollars, it's just the SAT adjustment from the high point, from one point to the next point. You cut that in half, the actual appropriations could vary based on all those factors we were talking about earlier. So with those performance districts that led to this most recent calculation, the free and reduced lunch threshold dropped from about 31% down to just under 17%. And the way the formula works is, you get extra weightings on students if you exceed those percentages. So if I'm a district with 50% free and reduced lunch, I've got a lot more students that are gonna get extra weighting in the student count part of this equation at 17% than I would have had at 31%. So we find many districts that are generating additional student counts, even though their overall enrollment may be flat or slightly going down, their student counts in the formula are going up. So as we talked about earlier, the calculation net of all the different factors that we could account for, for FY25 was 120 million. And again, a year ago, year and a half ago, nearly at this point in time, we were estimating 300 million for this coming year. So add on top of that then, the different changes that were passed through Senate Bill 727 in the last session. We are in year one in 26 of changing from based on attendance to based on a combination of enrollment and attendance. And so the example I would give you is if you've got 100 students and they're at 90% attendance, they count as 90 students in the formula. Well, this calculation is moving gradually to 50% and the first year is 10% enrollment, 90% attendance. So that same calculation would end up with a slightly higher number. And that blending will happen under the statute over the next five years. So there's an increase because we're starting to transition to membership. There was an incentive added of 1% of your formula funds if you maintain 169 day calendar. And so if any district maintains 169 day calendar this school year, they would get an extra 1% on their formula allocation for next year. So that's a new addition. There was a recalculation of local effort. Within this formula itself, you take your student count and the SAT and this market number called dollar value modifier, which is representing local wage rates. And having, recognizing that in a larger urban or suburban area, the wage rates are higher. So there's a little extra multiplier for some of those, some of those regions based on their average income or average wages. You multiply all those together and then you deduct a local effort figure. The local efforts driven by the assessed values in your district and an assumed tax rate. So within that local effort deduct though, way back at the beginning of this formula, districts could have lowered their local effort by putting as much of the choice funds, if you will, into their capital projects or debt service and taking them out of the operating funds. And when they did that, they lowered their local effort, which allowed a little bit more state monies. Well, not all the districts took advantage of that. And so we've had this imbalance, if you will, to the tune of about $14 million to where some districts had taken advantage of that 20 years ago, some did not. And so this just leveled the playing field. But it was about $14 million to do that. Then the other large one is moving from a 4% cap on pre-K students who can be funded through the formula to an 8% cap. And that cap is of the number of K-12 students who are free and reduced lunch eligible. So if I have 1,000 students that are free and reduced lunch eligible, that 4% cap is 40 kids that could be claimed in the formula in their pre-K year. This would double that to 8% or 80 kids in that example. So we've got an additional number of students that can be claimed through the formula that are in pre-K, three and four year olds, prior to entering kindergarten. Now, not every district gains the benefit of that. We have small school hold harmless districts that are on a fixed dollar amount and having those extra students don't generate any extra money. So separately, we have another line that has a grant program that allows some of those schools an opportunity to add pre-K and get some additional funding. There was also one other change in 727, and that was a slight adjustment in how virtual programs reported their attendance. That was only about 1.5 million in the fiscal note, but it does add to that. When you put all that together with all the other parts that are moving within the formula from one year to the next, those added up to this $497 million increase. So the 300 million increased fairly significantly because of 727 and because of some other provisions. And what I wanna share with you is charter schools' local effort. Back in 2022, House Bill 1552 changed how charter schools were funded. There was a gap between the local effort amount that they were receiving as a transfer from their host district, if you will, and what the actual local effort was. The mechanism led to a gap. So there was a statute created that would make up that gap with state funds, and that number seems to be increasing fairly significantly. So there's prior legislation that's still driving these numbers as well. So when you put all those different pieces together, we end up with $497 million, and the governor in this particular case has recommended 200 million. The caveat to that is there's also $150 million worth of backfill for lottery and gaming that might be short as part of this process, too, that you see on a different page. So I know a lot of people may ask, you know, why didn't we get closer to the 497? And I think at least part of that is because that backfill that we just talked about in somewhat great detail. So I said a whole lot there in a very short period of time, and I know there's a lot of nuance to that, but I'd be glad to dig deeper on any of the pieces that you need me to. So on, and I know we do have at least one inquiry, I'm guessing probably more. Real quick, on the NDI, the $200 million, so the department requested, you know, 497 million. The governor recommended 200 million. Does this, and maybe you can explain, because I think in some sense it's a, maybe it's only, technically speaking, or you could say it's attributable to that, or it would cover the costs of those, but the formula is the formula is the formula. I mean, is that how you understand it? It's not, or maybe it is, you can turn on one piece and turn off another. I mean, is it that granular? Do you have the ability within the system by which you make payments to say, obviously we're not in that situation at this moment in time, but we're gonna turn this piece off and turn this piece on. We're gonna fund this provision, not this provision of the formula, or is it just everybody is reduced by equal amount across the board, across everything? It's actually not quite either one of those, so I'll try to nuance this just a little bit. So all these things that we talked about as far as the list of 727 items and or the growth in the SAT, they are all inclusive within the formula itself. And the one mechanism that's in the statute that allows us to prorate it is lowering the SAT. So if we're short by $100 million, I've gotta lower that SAT until I get down to the point where the appropriation matches the new call, if you will, at that lower SAT. So that impacts different districts in a different way. If I'm a hold harmless district, I might not see any impact in that. Whereas if I'm on the formula district, as they say, I might be absorbing more than my neighbor than based on their dynamics and the variables that they have. That is different than, say, the small schools grant. We've got a separate NDI, that's a separate provision of statute that is unique in of itself. And so I don't really have the ability within all of these provisions we talk about under the statute, as we understand it, to pick and choose. We just lower the SAT to get that number to match. Thank you for that. And that kind of feeds into my next question or what was and is gonna be my next question. This amount, this $200 million, let's just, let's say that this committee and that this General Assembly and that the Governor signs this into law, all right, House Bill 2, takes effect July 1. What's the state adequacy target? Our estimate right now is $6,770, which is basically $10 above what it would be this year, based on the variables that we have identified right now. So that essentially absorbs the 727 changes plus things like dollar value modifier changes or enrollment changes, all those items get captured in there. And then where we're at then is just less than the full SAT. Okay, thank you for that. And Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry on this. Please proceed. Okay. So inside all that, my head's about to explode, I'm sorry. So realizing that we,are only on page 42. I'll dispense with a lot of the flowery language I'm known for and go right to the point here. So we get to adjust the SAT based on what we have available. You get to do that on the fly. Correct. Right. Okay, so if I look at the core here, the governor reduced that by a hundred million so we could do the very next page go to and he you asked in the NDI for almost 500 million and he raised it or have proposed 200 million. Right. Correct. So I guess the kind of the question is there is why didn't we just leave the core request alone and make this 100 million instead of 200 million? That's the first question. Well I need to clarify that that core request is impacted by some of the other NDIs of fund switches that are happening at the same time. And I'm going to ask you about that fund switch too here in just a second. And so if we, I guess I'm having a little trouble getting everything to line up just right because we're seeing student population and I know you'd mentioned this earlier before that we saw a rebound from our COVID drop-off of something like 25,000 students statewide that were, we didn't know where they went. Where, I don't know where that's happening at because in my districts we didn't see the rebound and we're not way up north where we're seeing a steady decline and we're not way down south where we're seeing steady decline. We're in that belt in the middle where we have fairly static growth. So I don't know where these students, this increase in students coming from but at the same time I'm seeing school reserves increase quite a bit and I don't know what it is statewide but perhaps you've got a list of reserves on hand for for each specific school district. I seem like I've seen that at some point sometime in the past. If somebody could get that to me I'd appreciate it or for the committee. But we are seeing significant increases in reserves and so I, in my mind I can see a few reasons for that. Some of the gear money still laying around, some ARPA money still laying around, but what would be instructive is how much of that is actually going to disappear on the timeline. Because we, I don't remember if the gear money did but the ARPA money had a sunset on it and so I wonder how much of this had been replacing GR locally, the federal money, and so allowing those GR reserves to build up locally and so that I'm not suggesting that we make them spend their money and what I'm saying is is that's got to figure into the accounting somewhere along the line and is it? Are you guys taking into account the higher reserves available to the local districts? So let me kind of touch on that in a couple of different ways and Representative Riggs asked a very similar question about the fund balance. No that's okay and we'll provide that by district but I will tell you what the trend is and the trend is that the last handful of years with all this relief money the reserves have been going up and you're correct that not unlike the state and the budget process here there has been some level of trying to replace whatever you can with you know local money in their case or state GR in the case of the state as a whole replace some of that with federal money if you can and that's been their general approach and the use of the ESSER funds and for example was fairly broad in terms of what they could use that money for so there's no doubt there are districts that have put more money in reserve because of that approach if you will and I think what they're trying to do is spread that three-year money into five-year money or seven-year money or something to that effect so I think there's some truth in that but at the same time as I mentioned with this formula money it's it's primarily earmarked for the teachers fund and so I think for me this one of the advantages of funding it through the formula is it's going to end up in a place where we help teachers and teacher salaries in particular we hope so I think that's part of what I would share with that but there is there is definitely some growth and reserves that's happening but it's to the point now where maybe the statewide average is in the upper 30s from a percentage standpoint which is between four and five months worth of operating cash so on that issue like you said this is at least partially result of 727 but the is there that big of a difference because now we're gonna have a bigger reliance on enrollment versus ADA is there from history and maybe you don't know the answer to this question directly but is there that big of a difference between enrollment and ADA it's grown actually in terms of how much that difference is why well I could I would suggest you that post kovat for whatever reason health related issues might be one but it used to be kids would get told you know unless you got a hundred and two fever you go to school and now the attendance rates are definitely lower than what they were pre coated fairly common across the state where if they were averaging 94% attendance prior to that they might only be averaging 91 or 92 percent in terms of attendance so the enrollments up here still potentially but the attendance rates are lower and by switching to enrollment you're you're picking up a higher student count well maybe it has to do with the way we calculate ADA maybe it has to do more with that because I mean generally we can you know just make a guess you know intuitively that there are some kids who've enrolled in our district moved on for whatever reason but when you get into districts like my district my home district not not the adjacent one Jason one would be have the Fort Leonard would affect but my district not so much but the reality is is that if if some of these budget considerations are driving that SAT but the reality is that enrollment is somehow affecting this and it's not reflective of what the ADA is then it didn't sound to me like the problem is is in the it's in the calculation method it's not in the funding side did that make any sense to you it does but quite frankly we have to follow the way it's defined in the statute so that's that's what we're doing and I understand that part what's but it puts us into this situation here and maybe someone in in our body needs to take a look at the way that's done but I see all these factors that are you know in the foundation formula and I'm gonna need somebody to come by and explain if you don't mind to talk to me about that SAT calculation because I am not getting it if somebody's got some time I would love to somebody to get me through that but I end up here now with the next Indy I which we haven't talked about but I got to throw it in here because this ends up being 350 million dollars basically that ends up into the corn and I understand we're not gonna use this 150 million unless we run out of lottery money but isn't that what the supplementals for because we're not gonna run out of lottery money on day one let's say right if those don't line up we're gonna find that out in time to be able to do a supplemental wouldn't we I I think that's true you could do a supplemental but I think this is the best attempt of looking at consensus revenue and budget and planning forecasting and trying to identify what is that best number they can come up with and that's not something we do as a department we rely on them for that process but they have a lot more expertise and trying to project these numbers than we do as far as the revenue side of things yeah and and understanding that it ain't real money until we spend it I get that part of it but to the finer point that was pointed out to by representative Chapel earlier is is that we see these grossly inflated budgets and a lot of times it's stuff like this well would we don't know what's gonna happen I mean I've heard this from other departments well we got to put that much money in the budget because nobody will want to do the project if we don't put it all in there realizing of course we appropriate on an annual basis around here and including those people who spend our money we spend money on know that we appropriate on an annual basis and so that that kind of logic wears a little bit thin on me whenever we've got an annual budget that we're dealing with and and this is just one of them how much do we have this and I guess we're gonna find out here in a little bit how much more this that we've got but I'm just Mike I guess my point is is that I don't see why we we couldn't have just included at least a portion of that I mean your your budget was already 3.7 looks to me like we could have left it at 3.7 and only done a hundred million here on page 42 for instance so I don't know if that was a question that was a concern more than anything so but if somebody could come by and help me out with that SAT calculation I'd sure appreciate it thank you thank you mr. chair there's in a black you recognize for an inquiry thank you mr. chair several things on this page 43 you've got here I'm gonna ask questions about the first one is this 94% number in attendanceHow does that work? What was that? What is that? Mr. Hicks. Okay. So in the statute under the virtual school program, the MOCAP program, when a student passes a course or completes a course successfully, they are assumed to have a 94 percent attendance rate because in a virtual course environment, you don't necessarily have the ability to track attendance. So course completion was defined at 94 percent. And I believe that dates back to what something close to what the average attendance rate was in the state at the time that statute came into play. Well, the virtual providers have gotten a lot more sophisticated in terms of their tracking of student work and behavior in their learning environment, if you will. And so the statute was changed recently then to allow them to claim actual attendance based on their coursework, time on task, if you will, in the actual online learning environment, as I understand it. So we made an assumption that the attendance rates, the assumed attendance rates, would be slightly higher in that environment. The impact on the overall of this is relatively small. I think it was around 1.5 million out of this big number. So that's the difference here. Okay. Thank you. If I understand right, just the numbers based on MSEP 6 would result in a SAT of 7145 for this coming year. And the analysis of how you get to that SAT, is that entirely prescribed by statute? It is. Okay. So the formula has been, was flat for several years based on those criteria set forth in statute and then when we did MSEP 6, it bumped it to 7145 under the same calculation, the same statutory calculation. Is that correct? That's correct. Just now it's a different group of districts in that. The group of districts changes every two year recalculation process. And you are required to do that recalculation by statute every two years. Correct. Is that correct? So it's flat for a long time, then after MSEP 6, based on the statutory requirements, it bumped to 7145. That's correct. Okay. In that calculation, okay, so that's what it would be and that would yield an additional whatever you ask for, 400 and some odd million dollar increase. The combination of that and all the other changes we've talked about with the 727 and so forth. So I'm confused by that too. I mean, I don't know how much of this 200 million that is recommended by the governor is that 200 million entirely due to 727 changes? I think a fair way to describe it is the 200 million covers all the 727 changes plus some additional impacts of other things that are moving within the formula. But it would cover all the 727 requirements that have been added. So the recommendation by the governor is cover the 727 requirements and just don't use the formula anymore. Is that right? At least for this next year. I'm not sure what you mean by don't use the formula anymore. We would lower the SAT to that appropriation amount. Right. And when you say you lower the SAT, I mean, if you got 200 million, then the SAT becomes this number. If you had 300 million to make that match, you'd be a different number. Correct. Right. Okay. I also want to talk about this bump from 4% to 8% with regard to the early childhood. I think you said not all the school districts are going to benefit from that change. Can you explain how that would be? So two examples that I would mention to you. Small school hold harmless is one of the provisions within this formula. And if your district has a prior year average daily attendance of 350 students or less, they cannot generate less money than what they would have under the old formula. And that's that amount under the old formula times whatever the dollar value modifier is for that district. So they're held harmless at a fixed dollar amount. So adding kids may not be enough to get them above that threshold to where they would generate additional new money in that scenario. The other example would be the large school hold harmless. They're not hold harmless at a fixed dollar amount. They're hold harmless at a dollar per pupil amount or a dollar per weighted ADA amount. And in their case, their hold harmless amount might be $1,000 or something like that rather than the $7,7145 or the $6,760. So they're going to get some additional money, but nowhere near what a formula district might who's adding kids onto their student counts that would be generating much closer to the SAT. So we hear this term small school hold harmless all the time, but we rarely hear the large school hold harmless. Now when you put those two together, is that all the schools? Is that all the schools? Oh no, there's more than 300 that are on the formula that are not in either one of those two camps. The majority are on the formula. So the way this is working, under this recommendation, we would fund the 727. So let me ask you this. If you have a fairly decent sized rural school district in a, let's say, fairly normal community, and they're already paying more than $40,000 to their teachers, already paying more than $40,000 to their teachers, and their attendance is approximately equal to their enrollment, and they're a four-day, and they're not getting anything out of this early childhood bump, and they're not a charter, how much increase are they actually getting out of this $200 million? Are they getting anything out of this $200 million for some other reason? There could be. The DVM change would be one. If they have a DVM change that goes up or down, it could be more or less. Tell us again what dollar value modifier. Dollar value modifier, which is tied to wage rates in that geographic area. So that's one example of something that could drive it. But what we have to kind of keep in mind is that changes in other districts, all the changes among all the districts could impact any one district separately, and ultimately, if there are stable enrollment, there's a good chance there will be nominal impact or nominal difference at the $200 million mark. So they'd get essentially what they got last year? Yes. If they are participating in any of those other areas that are outlined in that statute. I mean, the big one being if they're already paying $40,000 and if their attendance is relatively equal to enrollment. Is that right? That would be correct. Okay. Have you been able at this point to identify under this $200 million percent increase what the increases would be for the individual school districts? We can't identify that based on the data that we have right now or the data we used to generate this at the time we had it. That's basically readily available? Yes. Okay. We'd like to have that, please. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You didn't have any anti-supplanting language in 727 as it relates to teacher salaries, do we, in the baseline grant program as it relates to if you had somebody pay, it's 40, let's just say it's 40. I know you got the inflation adjustment in future years and then there's master's degrees eventually, but let's just say it's 40 for purposes of example. If it's 40 and you got a school district paying 40 and next year they pay 35, well, that's against the law. That doesn't work. There would have to be a point in time in which if you get up to that now, we'll help them as it relates to that. Right. The way we've handled that issue is through our guidance. We don't allow anybody to go backwards. We make them submit their current salary schedule and their projected one to make sure that nobody moved anything backwards in the process. Because there are some elements and I've still talked to a few people and I'm just one person at the end of the day. I mean, I thought depending on how a school district had benefits structured, we're carrying more of the load for some districts than others and if I was maybe an aspiring administrator, if you could go backwards, if I'm paying 80% of healthcare benefits and maybe you lower that salary and increase the, if the state can come, maybe it all works out in the end and the state picks up a little bit more of the tab, but you certainly have districts that paid more, you know, they could have paid a 97% of healthcare costs, but paid less even going back a few years when we started this than what we offered the baseline grant and you might have had a district that paid a little bit more in real dollars, but maybe really didn't cover much of any healthcare.you know we're gonna be subsidizing that one maybe I guess you can say at the expense of the other but there are there could be some winners and losers there depending on how somebody had their benefit structure not knowing we were gonna come in and subsidize teacher salaries yeah not directly through the formula we focused on the salary piece of it obviously and we have a provision in our guidance that we do not allow them to lower their salaries at any point in this process right but we didn't ever take into consideration if you know what a district did on full compensation because you could have a district that the teachers weren't making $38,000 they were making you know 37,000 and another district they're making 30 you know 38 but you know you figure total compensation the one that's getting paid whatever I said 36 36 you know they might actually be at 40 you know at the when you figure in all the fringe possible benefits I don't know how likely that was I think it did happen in some cases but anyway I digress so we now have to go to representative representative Lewis did you still have something please proceed it's not that you have to go to me you get to choose but anyway we we I appreciate this I want to just clarify if I misspeak with this but this is a this is a big deal all right we the 200 million that the governor's recommending obviously less than the 497 that the department requested all right so the difference is completely in going to be where the the SAT is set the SAT is going to be set at sixty seven seventy according to the governor's rec approximately approximately according to the governor's rec and which is still a $300 300 per student increase unless I mean let's just say per student I know there's lots of other calculations in there which is still more than it was a year ago so they are getting that everybody's getting the increase in the foundation formula that we gave them a year ago we're not taking that away that's still going in and going up a little bit more but not much and the other pieces are going in there the 1% for a five-day school week the baseline teacher salary grant 15 million in the in the the other part of the small school grant right and based on enrollment at this year it's 90 10 right 90 percent on attendance and 10 percent on enrollment we know it's going to change 80 20 70 30 60 40 50 50 so it's eventually you know it's going to be half on enrollment half on attendance those are all correct essentially the 200 million increase this year that the governor's recommending takes in all of the different pieces of 727 plus the extra increase in the SAT from last year that's figured in as well right it out to pick up some of that and then the other smaller adjustments the 4% to 8% for the for those schools that are doing child care and in the end then the other little for 1.4 million for the for the how it changes the well you know what I'm talking about yeah so that's correct I mean everything I'm saying there is correct that's it really the difference is we're just not do you think that the SAT number was where it ought to be I mean it's it's following the statute the way we set it up but the SAT number jumped from 63 to 71 if you over two years and of course halfway up there 67 60 that's where we're set for this year do you think the SAT generated by msip 6 following the statute was where it should be how do you weigh in on that because that's really what state that's what the debate here I think sure well the piece that I would maybe focus back on is the fact from inception in 2006 when it was 6117 some 18 years later for it to be 6375 that is a very very in my mind small increase for that length of period of time so maybe this is could be described as a correction of sorts to where we're getting it to what is a more realistic number a number that's grown in a way that has has changed the funding level potential if you will in a way that may be somewhat closer to even what inflation has been over that same period of time but again layer in with that all these different legislative changes that happened over the last 15 plus years since the formula started in a couple recessions in the middle of all that and there's all kinds of value judgments that could be made but it is I would I would describe it as more realistic to watching over time what what normal growth would be the inflationary costs and pressures that schools have faced just like everybody else has yeah what we have I agree with what you're saying I think that you're right what wasn't very accurate it was a change from 6100 to 6375 over the course of 15 years that's a pretty small adjustment that's not even 1% inflationary growth over if you do it over 15 years that's what we were sitting here talking I showed him well this is the change he goes that's really good for one year I say yeah but that's the problem is that's happened over the last since 2006 that's gone over the last 18 years oh well you put that over 18 years that's not a big chunk right but if you look at it one year he said well that's a big adjustment it is a big adjustment in into 2025 and 2026 you're right but if you look at it extended over where it was when this was bill was when this foundation formula went in it's a much smaller adjustment our decision really I think and the governor's recommendation the governor's as I say is divide the baby here that we're putting in 6700 we're putting we're going up to halfway on the on the SAT change and we're subsidizing all that we're making sure we fund all of 727 because that's what the legislature put into place last year so we're doing both those what we're not doing is the second year SAT increase for all practical purposes just a tiny bit of that for this the second part of the SAT that's kind of what's really happened here is that would you agree that's a fair representation yeah so I think it is too and I the question is do we want to I mean as a as House of Representatives do we think we want to go beyond the governor's rec or to leave that for the Senate to do I mean do we do we going to go above the governor's rec and try to meet this that that statutory or or do we want to say yeah we think the governor was kind of dividing the question a little bit but making a pretty good a pretty good assumption so we don't grow too fast you know I think that's really where we're at I I do you think that something in m6 was purposely designed to cause an SAT increase the Office of Quality Schools had no inside baseball on what the impact would be of the M CIP criteria that were established I nobody asked me if it would have impacted the SAT and I would tell you that maybe there maybe there's a strand of common sense to say if we raise the bar raise the expectation which is what it does people don't score as well districts do not score as well under this mechanism we went from having over 300 above 90% to maybe having 50 or some 40 some much smaller number above 90% in the scoring rubric it would seem to follow those districts we might look different than a large group of districts and they are and that does do another call on the formula correct because when you have only 25% of the school you only have you know 90 schools making it making that top 25 right the ones that are going to be evaluated for SAT purposes and they have much fewer students that are free and reduced lunch maybe fewer even on IEP then those calculations go get worked back through the formula which makes a little larger call correct and I think that's something that people kind of overlook but it is the call to educate the students of the state of Missouri that's what the call is from the formula that we got set up in statute in 2006 hence the governor's call for maybe looking at that so I appreciate I think I think I understand exactly what you know what well not exactly what the governor intended to do with that and I appreciate your your presentation representative Riggs you recognize for an inquiry representative Steinhoff you recognize for an inquiry thank you I want to clarify something it's been said a couple times now the 200 million is not all of 727 correct only the part that impacts the formula correct so small schools grant you'll see baseline teachers literacy fun or whatever a literacy program that was I know it wasn't recommended okay and then the other thing I wanted to know is do you have the ability to change the SAT at several times throughout the year or is it a single time lady I have to ask you suspend I think there might be a some sort of an alarm indicating just stand at ease oh okay I think there's some sort of an alarm we're gonna stand in recess until the conclusion of the alarm and we'll reconvene immediately upon the clearing of the alarm and so we stand in recessOkay, good job, Karen. Good job. Good job, Karen. Good job. Good job. Good job. Good job. Good job. Good job. Good job. Good job. Wow! I like that. One more time. Okay, good job. That is awesome. Go to Beadaholique.com for all of your beading supply needs! Beadaholique.com