FY 23 was, of course, the first year of the funding program, but it says the department has lapsed funds because a large number of school districts did not submit a budget for the grant and request any reimbursement. And I think, you know, with that alone, you know, there's probably some aspersions that would come to the department. So you add an additional sentence. All school districts were made aware of the grant through several, not one, I don't even think two, several that's got to be three or more, communication methods. And I don't, I was here, but forgive me, I don't remember when this went in the conversation, but I have to imagine it was something to the effect of this is necessary and the districts they just don't have the money or they'd already done them, maybe some of them have done it. If they just had the money they would, you know, and it appears that that's evidently not even the case because we're just, and I go back to, you know, whatever the reserve is, 30%. I mean, I think they had the money all along. Obviously, you know, if it was a priority, this isn't, I mean, this is a 650, well, it's gonna be 650, a million for the whole state, six million people. What could it be per district? Not that much. So we're gonna pay for it all, but yet there's a large number of school districts that said, yeah, we just, you know, even if you give us the money, we just, we're not interested, no thanks. I guess, I mean, what else am I to make of this? Well, first of all, I don't, it was not something the department requested initially, but we do feel like it's filling some need for somebody, obviously, but some districts already have a mechanism in place, I'm sure, that would help take care of those kind of needs without relying on some state support to do that. So that's my, that's my intuition speaking. And you think that applies to a large number of school districts, that that would be, so there, so a lot, or to use your language, a large number of school districts were already doing this, I guess, is what you think maybe is likely to happen. That could be the case, and also some of our smaller districts, their allocation on a million-wide, a million-dollar statewide grant would be so small, they may not think it's worth the administrative time to pursue the funds. And so they may be just not, not doing it at all. Okay, very good. We're on to round two now, Representative Brown, you may proceed. Thank you. So as a person who has purchased these items out of my own, out of my own purse, which, it's not a program, it's just, you know, I purchased it, can I ask for this money? Can I personally, as, you know, Dr. Rachel Prouty's school counselor, can I apply to DESE to get reimbursed? I get that the school districts weren't doing it, and the school districts, the district, at the district level certainly didn't tell the teachers who were in those classrooms or in these offices that there's some kind of reimbursement, because I'm sure they would have insisted that they participate, but because the school district, district didn't, I'm happy to use my, my reach to tell the teachers who do purchase these things that they can get reimbursed if individual teachers and individuals who purchase these items, if their school isn't participating, to get reimbursement. So is there something that teachers can do personally to get reimbursed for these funds? We don't have a mechanism in place for individual teachers for this particular program. We, from a practical standpoint, for us to administer this, we need to work through the districts. It's just, just, but you're picking up what I'm putting down. I am. Yeah, so I can't personally be reimbursed, but as long as the child has the items she needs, I don't think it really, you know, I get, I get where we're going with this, and I'm certainly not trying to say that teachers cover the majority of the expense, but I mean, it would sure be helpful if we could petition our government to get reimbursed for the funds. We spend out the kindness of our heart for these children. Thank you. Continue, please. Oh, I'm sorry, how could I forget, Representative Owen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can, I can tell you where 46 of these, why 46 of these districts did not request this, and that's because they're working through a group called Care to Learn, which we just discussed earlier, some funding. They're working in Southwest Missouri and South Central Missouri with school districts. They make the communities, though, also raise money, too, and so they offset some of the costs. They get it in bulk, and it discounts, and they do so much more clothes, everything, but there might be other places around the state that are doing the same type thing cooperatively, but that's at least takes care of 46 of the school districts why they're not, why they're not requesting it. I guess we're not quite ready to move along. Representative Douglas, you may proceed, and then we'll go to Representative Cupps. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you all for taking the time to take our inquiry. As I was reading, it said that the program was being accessed by the school nurses. If the school nurses, or there's not a school nurse, or they're on some type of part-time level, can someone else in the district apply for this, like your McKinney-Mentor Homes liaison, or someone that's over your student support services? Yes, the superintendent of the district administration can identify anybody to be the person that would be the grant manager, so to speak. Okay, excellent, thank you. Representative Cupps, you may proceed. Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to comment. I think it's clear that Representative Martin, although I have the utmost respect for him, has never been a 22-year-old male teacher in a public school system, because if you've ever had that awkward situation exist in your classroom, you might say that this, I don't care how much of it were lapsed, and I, as to Representative Prouty's point, if we don't have a clean and comfortable place where students can go and learn without the risk of embarrassment, it's like, what is the point of public school unless that scenario environment, for lack of a better term, exists? And so sometimes I think we get caught up on some of this stuff, but if you look at the grand scheme of the amount of money we spend, you want me to find waste in the average public school system? I don't necessarily think maybe this is the place we need to be looking. So just remember, in some of this stuff, look at it from the eyes of the actual teachers, we talk about educators, look at it at the eyes, we talk about teacher attention, how would I think about this if I was a fresh-out-of-college 22-year-old educator, what would I think about it then? So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Page 455. Page 455 is a new decision item for the STAR Academy, recommended by the governor for $1 million. This is a turnkey intervention program for middle school students that gives them a hands-on opportunity at STEM curriculum. What school district would this go to? We would have to do some type of application process and identify some prioritization. We have not established that yet at this point. All right, thank you. That takes us to book four, which is halfway through, yes. And this is the Office of Quality Schools. The first core is on page 457. This is competency-based education. This was another one of the programs established by Senate Bill 681. It was originally funded with a $2 million transfer. We have used the funds from there and finished out the grants, and so there's no longer any dollars here, and we are recommending that this be reduced to zero. Page 462 is the core for the Missouri Scholars and Fine Arts Academy. This is governor recommendation of $850,000. It covers a three-week Scholars Academy at MU and a two-week Fine Arts Academy at MSU for Missouri's academically gifted student. At this point, there's no fees for these students in fiscal year 25. Page 467 is the core for the Recovery High School. This was one-time funding of $500,000, core reduced to zero. The application deadline for this has been extended to March 1st, and we have two or three school districts that are considering making an application for this. Representative Black, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Looks to me like there was money for this in FY 24 as well. And no one applied. That was one-timed and nobody applied, and it was one-timed again. In 24, it was limited to a certain geographical area, and this year it's more broader, so we have this kind of a statewide opportunity this year. Yeah, that was my recollection that, in fact, maybe in 24 it was limited to maybe one school or something, very, very small. I believe it described one school district in the appropriation language. And we fixed that, and we still don't have many takers. We have two or three, if not four, districts that are considering making an application for these startup funds, and they did not, they have not indicated for sure that they're going to yet. Starting one of these high schools is a logistical undertaking, and so they're being very thoughtful about whether or not they want to proceed with that, and I think there's a good chance we'll have one or two by the March 1st deadline that want to pursue the path. And that's this fiscal year, and so, I mean, how much money can we get out the door? This would be next fiscal year. Well, it's zeroed. Right. For this fiscal year, it's really just seed money for some initial work to start the startup process. It would take much more than the funds we have here to start one of these schools. They're going to have some local district commitment that they're going to need to put into this to make it work. So some school district this year mightI'm going to pay 80%. And at the end of the day, it's the same dollars. Is there any prohibition against something like that? Interesting. I don't know if they thought about that or not. They want us to maintain a standard. And Pam would probably 57th percent. 51st percentile. They want us to be at least there. Which we weren't even there not very long ago. I mean, that's the other. I'll just say my piece and be done with it. And hopefully not have to come back. There might be other inquiries. But we've got this one. You've got 740, you've got 742, you've got 745. All federal dollars, correct? And if I may, just quick addition, around $160 million, which would be, and it was kind of alluded to, but that would be a GR pickup in FY27. $160 million. At some future date, it would be. May or may not be 27. We might have some federal funds by which to support. But that's a one-time funding source that we would run out of sooner rather than later, whether it's next year or the year before. And I mean, my question is, it's like, where do we get that? Where's the general revenue come from in the future after we've invested tens, if not hundreds of millions here recently, and then across the budget? And that's where I have some trepidation, is that I think about, we've come here next year. And just to maintain the same level of government, we might have $160 million GR pickup. We're not doing anything extra. That'd just be to maintain what we would have done, started July 1, if we move forward with these items. So that is, $160 million is obviously a lot, considering the formula recommendation is what? $200 million a year? So that's a significant, obviously, sum of money that I just wonder about the sustainability as we talk about these things. And two, it does, I'll be honest with you, the whole IT and how we go from attendance to enrollment and whether that would actually work, talk about trepidation. And again, I know this was not your desire. Of all people, you probably least appreciate that this has gone the way it has with the system. But we still have every recommendation that's come forward. Maybe we didn't fund it just like it was requested, but the dollars have been available to do that, to take it 100% infant and toddler. And the year before that, we've made these investments. And yet, to date, we hadn't been able to make the program work in the way that it's supposed to work. And so that gives me some consternation, too. I know it sounds like if we're not there, we're real close. But over the past couple of years, we've made additional investments in child care subsidy. And it hasn't turned out as advertised, I guess I would say. And we've heard, consequently, from constituents. And I can't tell you how many people I've had tell me that we didn't appropriate sufficiently, which is clearly not true. Although, I get it, right? Because if you're Joe Public, and you're not getting paid, seemingly, there's only one explanation as to why that would be, right? There's no money by which to pay you. So that's our fault, right? And usually, that's probably true. But this is one of those instances in which it was something else going on. So anything on, and I jumped around. So you were on 740. I don't think we gave you an opportunity to explain 742. Maybe you did 745. Do you want to say anything additional on any of those items? OK. Does anybody need to say anything on the committee on those items? OK. Let's go before somebody changes their mind. 748 is the core for the ARP child care discretionary funds that have expired. So this is just being core reduced to zero. 754 is the core for the St. Louis Police Foundation. This was funding that was used to set up a new child care program from ARP child care discretionary funds. So that's core reduced to zero as well. And the last core in book five is the language equality and acquisition for deaf kids for $452,000. And this is to promote kindergarten readiness for children who are deaf or hard of hearing. Representatives, Del Taylor, you're ready to answer an inquiry. Go back for a quick second to 748 and page 749. You say that this is core that we finished the program, and yet there was $65 million unspent last year. Tell me a little bit more about what's going on here. So this was ARP child care discretionary and stabilization funding. Remember, for the stabilization, we got a statewide grant of $444 million, and discretionary was $277 million. Stabilization ended on 9-30-23. Discretionary ended on 9-30-24. So those grants have now expired. And this is just taking that appropriation authority completely out of the budget. This was appropriation authority, $65 million? Yes, and that was empty capacity. We've got considerable empty capacity in this year as well. If you look at the $149 million that were appropriated this year, that was way more as well. But that was done to make sure that we were able to spend those grants and get them out before their expiration date. I guess what I'm wrestling with is, if there were more programs, are there things that we could have done to better utilize $65 million? No, we had to have spend plans drawn up when we first got those funds, and then obligate those items on the spend plan, and then have them expended by 9-30-23 for stabilization and 9-30-24 for discretionary funds. So there was just a lot of appropriation authority that wasn't filled with cash for these two particular grants. So we didn't send money back because of that. It was empty capacity. Part of that's the timing, that when the budget's written, we have this amount of capacity left, and then the spending continues to happen during the remainder of the fiscal year. And so you end up with a larger budget number in the following year than what's remaining funds in the grant. And for these two grants, we had to demonstrate to the feds that we had the full ability to expend both of those grants. So they were overstated appropriations just to demonstrate to the feds, we could get this money out the door. It still sits with me that these were federal funds. It may not necessarily have been that we had to send money back, but there was an opportunity for us to execute on programming that we did what we could, and we didn't do enough, and the feds would have paid more had we had more programs. No. The notice of awards were that set limited amount of money, $444 million for stabilization and $277 million for discretionary. So we couldn't have gotten any more. That was it. OK. All right, thank you. Moving then to book six. We began on page 764 with the core for the charter school public school commission, and this is for $3.8 million and 6 FTE. Page 772, you heard about this one a little bit in the supplemental. This is the charter school capital improvement revolving fund transfer. $2 million of this is transferring from the state treasurer's department where the money was last year, and then $5 million is new general revenue that the governor is putting with this for the capital improvement needs of charter schools. Representative Black, you are recognized for an inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The $5 million that is being transferred, did you say from the treasurer's office? $2 million is currently in the state treasurer's office budget for fiscal year 25, and that is being transferred here for fiscal year 26. And then the governor is recommending adding an additional $5 million to that to make a $7 million program for the capital improvement needs of charter schools. And what was the source of the money in the treasurer's office? I don't know. I assume general revenue, but I would need to look that up to verify it. So it's presuming that it will spend $7 million. Is this ongoing, or is this one time? This is ongoing funding. So we're presuming that we'll spend $7 million on these projects in the next fiscal year, is that correct? I would describe it as a revolving fund where they're issuing loans and financing improvements over time. And then the charters would pay that money back to the fund. So these are loans, not grants? Correct. Thank you. Page 774 is then the program authority dollars to allow us to spend this money. Again, $2 million of those program authority dollars is transferring in from the state treasurer's office. And this is the additional $5 million to allow us to spend these transfer dollars and loan this money out to charter schools. You'll notice this is other funds, because the GR transfers into this new capital improvement revolving fund for the charter schools. That brings us to page 776, which is the core for the Missouri Commission for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing.of hearing 1.2 million dollars and 7 FTE page 383 is the core for the hearing aid distribution transfer $100,000 that ties to page 789 and is part of the money that fills up the $200,000 in the core for the hearing aid distribution program I'm sorry can I I'm just struggling to kind of take you back to just a technical question on the charter school 772 the that there that's the transfer the 7 million and then 774 is the the CI revolving the 5 million which is appropriated out of that fund but why is there there's 7 million transfer but then only 5 million in spending authority the other 2 million comes from the state treasurer's office for the program dollars that go along with page 774 and you can't really see it in these movers pages so there's there's 7 million of authority really where do I find the other 2 million we think this may be a representation of how it was entered into movers we we want to work with staff to make sure it's done correctly because but you're it's there you believe I just can't see it well that does seem like a problem yeah okay well we'll keep looking at that all right so I'm sorry continue I believe we're on page 795 which is the core for the Missouri Holocaust Education and Awareness Commission and that is a governor recommendation for one hundred and twenty two thousand dollars that then takes us to the core for the Missouri assistive technology and that's found on page 800 4.5 million dollars and 8.4 FTE page 806 is the Missouri assistive technology debt offset escrow transfer for $1,000 page 811 is a new decision item for the Missouri assistive technology revolving fund they are working with the Department of Health and Senior Services to provide equipment to families who are trying to care for individuals with Alzheimer's or dementia in their home so this is things that would keep mom from wandering off and dad from forgetting his pills so he can stay in the home longer so they are asking for additional authority on this revolving fund for the purchase of those supplies and assistive technology devices for these families and then that gets us to the transfers that fund the budget would you like me to step through each of the transfer pages there are no new decision items in the transfers does anybody have any questions on any of these transfers specifically I'm trying to look through them quickly myself see if I do representative Taylor you have an inquiry proceed in general back on page 800 fundamentally why is Desi in charge of assistance technology for what seems to be seniors I'm not sure either one of us know the history of how the some of the Commission's get assigned to us and this particular group although we do work with a lot of folks that need assistive technology throughout various programs that we have but I'm not sure how that decision was made to be honest with you how it was and I'm not sure if the if they do all right mr. Baker will inform us thank you all right good evening I'll try to make it quick I'm David Baker I'm director of Missouri assistive technology it's it's a long convoluted story but long story short we kind of moved around state government for a long time when Missouri originally got the federal legislation we have traditionally done a lot with school districts to help them implement IEP serve students with disabilities so that was more or less how we ended up in Desi many years ago thank you representative Boggs you have an inquiry please proceed yeah maybe more of a comment to me it makes sense because you know as as I've kind of jokingly gone through these books and kind of tonight and I've noticed that we didn't have a wake you up and get you out of bed program and I and I know I'm kind of making a lot of that but I feel like you know some of the things that I saw my first year in government is that there's so many ways of laps and so I think that's probably you know for the public's eye for us in government is the part of yeah I realize it's not a business and everything but we've we've kind of traveled on and 2020 kind of created this as this part of government taking care of us and so I think at some point we're gonna have to look back into the reality of what's really available and what's really needed and and kind of taking care of one another again and so I just I just wanted to make that comment that it's still very frustrating for me as a businessman to see how much people are expected expecting government to do all this and so I hey you know as we're so so rough on you during this time it's just a lot of it we're you're in the middle we're in the middle and we and we just kind of keep passing it on at some point we're gonna have to sit down and have hard conversations about not what someone done wrong but where we're gonna go forward and so that that's what I think we're lacking today is is everybody wants to blame somebody else and I and I know she took full responsibility last time said before us but I I think we have government growing but we keep we keep slamming money toward this and I think at some point instead of another program I want to consolidate some programs that's that's what I really want to do and I would entertain anybody's ideas if we could find a ways to consolidate because what I feel like sometimes whenever I go through the new decision items I remember I did that my first year here I was I was just focusing on them budget was too big focus on them and so you know and and so sometimes whenever I step out and you come back in you kind of feel like you're lost and so you kind of pinpoint one part and so you know just looking over to you know this evening just the hundreds of millions of dollars it's new decisions items and I feel like what we do is we just we just keep shifting whenever we find a word that works really well pulls in money we draw from that until that runs out so I would like to find some real truth ways that we could go okay this isn't my department I don't like in my building business I don't do this part like I don't do sidewalks you know and so if you know speaking to representative Taylor's you know if if something isn't fitting we need to find a way to make it fit where it fits so we're not lapsing you know we talk about lapsing in years I look at lapsing in departments so a lot of people's focus in a more on the lapse of one year to another I'm looking at how many times we lapse mental health within our budget it's woven all through a budget time and time again and so I would like to find a way that we could you know like I started looking at these programs and one program after another after another the after-school program the before school program in between school program and and all that and so I feel like we could be more efficient if we could like consolidate some programs and go okay here's what it's really going to take and maybe we won't need to you know because I feel like sometimes these programs are designed to fix a problem that should be learned during school time or don't you know it's like and so anyway that's that's kind of people's frustration I know it I'm not directing this in anybody this is government I'm talking about the frustration with government is the over overall we we look at another program and I mean I could name the ones that's been started since I was on budget that I that I didn't even want but it was you know the black vulture when there was there just so many programs and I was just like I know how to fix this you know just let the people take care of it you know like but you know and and then we we get into our rut where we can't say those things we can't say what really needs to take place because we're trying to follow protocol and so the public is tired of protocols they're ready to find a way a solution that we can bring the budget down to a point where our kids are learning and our kids are coming out and you know because some of these programs follow the kids even plum out of school and and I would have been that kid so I'm not saying it's a bad program but at some point we got to make this work and so anyway that's kind of just my my rant if you will so thank you thank you mr. chairman so for me 824 on outstanding schools transfer and this could apply to several of them but can you just help me understand is there any reason why we do this transfer at a GR instead of like why don't we just appropriate directly at a GR like is there a reason there's several that could apply to this is is there is that just the way we do it I think it's statutorily based and I think this one in particular goes back to Senate bill 380 back in 1993 if I had to guess is when I think this was created okay so the RISMO requires us to take the extra stepand without doing some research I know it's what I think is true okay and then on 849 the after-school program transfer it's in it's the Missouri school retreat reading assessment grant that's the fund 1732 but it's $2,000 and it like we've lapsed it every year like what's going on here what is I mean it is it is just $2,000 but still what what what is this to be honest there's no funds in it I'm not sure what the purpose at this point is to be honest with you so I might could cut 2,000 a lapse here and you might not ask for it back next year without doing research I thought I was gonna get a commitment all right well I'm not gonna try I'm 95% with you mr. chairman all right well we'll take a note on that so representative Chapel you may proceed I just my mother was my stepmother was a teacher my daughter's teacher and a vice president I taught at the University I'm not anti-education I'm just anti convoluted budgeting for no apparent reason so you know we talked in the hallway is not personal at all I just have three quick questions in last year we found out that at least one department was calculating the 3% governor withhold in their asks so that if it did get withheld they'd still get the money they wanted there's none of that in here never thought never entered my mind well I'm so happy to hear that and then I asked earlier for the numbers of principals administration within the school building versus administration without the school building and how they relate to the growth and the number of teachers each can we also during that same time period get in get an idea of the increase in salaries for each of those three categories yeah I'd like to see that as well and then my last question have y'all got any kind of a plan that you're working on just in case President Trump actually does kill the Department of Education well the nuances and the details of all of that if it comes to pass and you know we've had discussions about what that might look like and I think the discussions I'm hearing about are more like doing some type of block grant program back to the states and giving more flexibility to the states I think we would probably welcome that in general but boy that's a that's a complex piece there yeah there's a lot of federal statute that's driving most of the federal programs that we're involved in and they've got a we've got to operate within those confines unless they're changed as somebody old enough to have been almost entirely educated without the existence of the Department of Education I'm not against it I think it's a good idea to at least consider the possibilities community or centralized block grants would be a very good idea but I won't go all the way back to it but given the the lack of anybody beta testing the new IT system I'm a big hope for the best plan for the worst kind of a guy and I'd really hope encourage that we consider all possibilities and just what if because the state brings in less than 25 billion dollars we got a 53 billion dollar budget request what if all right thank you okay anything additional on book six for anybody and we're on kind of the transfers generally although we haven't taken them one by one I don't think we probably need to at this point anything additional on books okay anything additional of general nature for the Department of Elementary Secretary education before we representative focal you have a inquiry question please I know it's been a long day I did want to ask Desi a few questions about the 50 million in the ESA funding I know that is not in your budget it for whatever reason is and will appear in the treasurer's budget and when he's before us I'm sure we'll all or some of us will have a lot of questions but if it's okay and I talked to the chairman he was giving me a little bit of lenience here I would just like your thoughts Desi's thoughts on the 50 million for direct vouchers for students and why that doesn't reside in Desi's budget is that something that you would want or did it just go to the Treasury or the treasurer's office because that's where the tax credits were I just kind of wanted your general sentiment on that 50 million and why that doesn't reside in your budget book I'll let Commissioner take a stab at that one it helps if you have the mic on thank you for the question and actually of the 50 million I look at that 50 million as a tax dollar just like every other dollar and my opportunity here would be if I could work closely with the treasurer's office there is in 727 a commission that is to have a nationally normed assessments with all kids that receive those kinds of dollars behind their education we should be able to get those results we should be able to have some conversation about whether we're getting a bang for the buck no matter what kind of program it goes to if it's a tax dollar I hope to work with the treasurer's office very closely and I know that we have had preliminary conversations since the state of the state to start having those is there anything that mandates it the treasurer's office works with you is there any oversight from desi to for that 50 million or any no formal relationship between desi and vouchers there's nothing except for the Commissioner of Education sits on that particular board okay it's all I know to your knowledge or to desi's knowledge right now are there any school districts or schools that are receiving tax credit vouchers that have policies that don't that prohibit children that have IEPs that have maybe a learning disability that they themselves are gay or their parents are gay are you aware of what restrictions are are set around school districts that are receiving those the current tax credit vouchers and then my second question is when we if we expand that 50 million and it's truly in the form of direct tax dollars going to private schools does desi have any guidance or any thoughts on what we should make sure those private schools are signing up for before they receive taxpayer dollars and I know that's a difficult question and you might not want to answer it but I don't know the answer to it or I would and I think it is really and truly working directly with the treasurer's office as to what the opportunities are and the responsibilities are tied to those funds are you aware of the 50 million is it going to mimic or model what the tax credit criteria is with the new income eligibility and you know prior to last year we had there's a pretty low threshold on income eligibility do we know if that 50 million is going to raise to the 300% of federally pop federal poverty limit or is it going to be something different altogether representative I just know what's general is general revenue 50 million straight in I know I haven't had the opportunity to learn more but as soon as I do I'll let you know absolutely any concerns that the department has with spending 50 million in voucher dollars for private education again I just go back to when I sat in your seat I always wanted to be able to say that was accountable for every tax dollar yeah still that opinion okay thanks thank you director I certainly I understand and I hope your voice gets better sooner rather you start singing right now I you know I've learned a couple things so I'm happy to share those with you offline maybe they help to you but I hope you do start to get your voice back because I know that's in this business it's it's kind of your main your main tool isn't it yeah yeah you figure out you it's talking is can can come in handy so certainly hope that that gets better for you soon and we appreciate you all absolutely bearing with us through the I would like to just say that in closing you know we have a wonderful staff over the department very hard-working people we have a tremendous job ahead of us we do some things really really well and some things we need a lot of work to do but I can tell you that the heart and soul is there I don't know how long but if my next time I come back for a budget hearing I want to be able to have a voice and I'll definitely eat lunch so thank you yes yes thank you Commissioner and thank you to all of you for bearing with us through the evening and that will conclude the Department of Elementary Secondary Education's FY 2026 budget request and we thank you for being with us just committee members for your edification again we'll be back here course 815 in the morning and hearing first from the Secretary of State we got the Department Commerce and Insurance Department of Labor and the Department of Economic Development all tomorrow we'll see how long we're on the floor I know there's weather and I've had a lot of people ask me my intention is to if at all possible I mean the schedule just really doesn't allow for anything other than to push forward unless we're just absolutely not able to and so you know the weather might change our plans but it'll be a game time decision and certainly communicate that to you if we do have to cancel or change but at this point you're just going to try to move forward and I hope that we're able to continue on schedule and so with no further business coming before the committee we are adjourned