Mr. Steinhoff, I'm sorry you were so rudely interrupted there, and you may resume your inquiry and the fire alarm has been cleared for anyone wondering, listening online. I appreciate you prioritizing our lives over my questioning, so thank you. I was just asking, could the SAT be changed at different points throughout the year? So our approach, and it's been this way prior to my time with the agency, but the approach typically has been, we start a little bit conservative in terms of what the SAT number is in the distribution of calculation. So right now, instead of 6760, we're distributing it 6650, I believe, and that's been a pattern over the years, and as we see through the year that the revenues are, in fact, meeting the expectation, we'll gradually raise it. And what happens then is, let's say we get to June and we get to the full 6760, the school districts are trued up year-end, so it's not like you're really losing any of that money, it's just we meter it out a little bit slower and then we can speed it up as we get close to the end of the fiscal year. Okay, and so then, thinking about wrapping up a lot of these conversations, if you find out that that lapse is starting to occur, and as long as you're within your appropriation, could you use also some of that lapse to go above, I mean, as long as you stay below the projected amount, that 7000-whatever, could you end up going up higher than 6770? For next fiscal year? For next fiscal year. Correct. Yeah. Unless, of course, there is appropriation language that would put an additional limit on it, and so typically there's been language not to go above, say, 7145, so I would expect that would be in play as well. Because the Governor did not recommend to lower the calculation, just not appropriated the funds for the full calculation, correct? Not the full amount, correct. Right. So, when we think about that lapse that was back in the previous line item, you know, that we were talking about, I think last year it was about $50 million. Some of that $50 million is spending authority, is that correct? Or would you be- Possibly. Like, if you ended up lapsing $50 million this FY26, you would be able to adjust the foundation formula up a little bit more to spend it? We would only be able to go up to 6760 this year. That's as far as we could go. FY26, I mean. Okay. Yes. Since we're under-appropriating, we could use our lapse to get closer. Well, this year's lapse wouldn't apply to next fiscal year. Right. I guess I'm just predicting if it was the same amount of lapse in FY26. If, let me say this a different way, if the call on the formula happens to be less than what we have anticipated at this point, the SAT would end up being somewhat higher, not to 7145, but some number higher than it would be based on our current assumptions. Okay. And when we also think about district reserves, it also could contribute to why districts end up having a lot of reserves if we continue to keep filling in at the end, in June, correct? After they've already made their predictions for the next year? I suppose that's possible. Yeah. I mean, I get it's not preventing them from spending it the next year, but they're making budget projections before those last amounts are coming in. I would say the vast majority, they make an assumption at the beginning of the budget cycle as to what they think that SAT might be at the end of the year, or they're also estimating their weighted average daily attendance or some of the other factors that might go into it. Most of them would have experience to know that we're going to raise it as far as the revenues will let us take it by year end up to the cap. Yep. So. Balancing act for sure. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay. I think we're ready to go to 46, which has already been discussed a little bit as well, but the formula shortfall of GR pickup from lottery. Yes, that's correct. This is a $150 million general revenue pickup recommended by the governor to replace $32 million in a projected revenue shortfall from gaming proceeds and $118 million revenue shortfall from lottery. On page 47, it says that this was estimated using actual revenue numbers through December 2024 and revenue projections for 2025. Have those been provided to us or could you provide those to us? They were not provided to us. That would be something from budget and planning. Okay. So budget and planning, I guess, wrote this description. Correct. All right. So we need to ask budget and planning for these, and we will do that. So with that, I think Representative Chappell had something on this item. You may proceed, Representative Chappell, unless maybe. No, that's fine. Thank you, sir. Please go ahead. The supplemental for this same line item for 2025, how much was that? If memory serves me correctly, it was $95 million, $80 million lottery, $15 million classroom trust fund. And this is in addition to what's already been asked for supplemental? It would be inclusive within that number. So it would be not $150 on top of that, but $55 million in addition to that. So it's $55 million that we're looking at because it may be down. I don't know if that's the right way to describe it. I'm sorry, I'm reading it off here, and it may not be able to support the appropriated amounts. So May is what we're talking about. Yeah, when my oldest daughter got married, I asked her what her budget was, and she said, I don't know. I guess we'll just buy everything we need, and then we'll find out what the budget was. And I told her, well, that's not how budgets work, and we're not doing that. But what this all seems to be is we'll figure what we might buy and go ahead and budget for that, like honeymoon in Rome or whatever. I mean, this is all may and might based on what we're seeing here, right? So these numbers were generated by budget and planning and their process of I'm not blaming you, sir. I'm not blaming you. I'm just looking at the black and white, and it's May is what we're talking about. Yeah? Correct. Okay. All right. Thank you, sir. Representative Martin, you may proceed with an inquiry. Just a historical question. Is there a precedent for this in the past where they're talking about these funds may be lower? Has there been GR in the past that kind of has a buttress underneath this? I wouldn't describe that as common. I think if it has happened in the past, it has not been on this scale. This is a little unique, obviously. Okay. I don't care. Okay. Thank you. And I'd have to go back and look at last year's numbers to see how much of additional lottery funds and gaming funds were appropriated. It seems like there might have been some carryover funds that were being spent down in the appropriation process last year that might have contributed to the size of it this year, making those assumptions that we had last year. But I'd have to go back and look at the numbers to confirm that. Okay. Thank you. I think we can continue now. Page 48 is the new decision item for the county foreign insurance. We talked about this a little while ago in the offset in the foundation formula core. This is a new decision item recommended by the governor for $7 million. Page 50 is the core funding for the transportation program for school districts to transport approximately 485,000 children living more than three and a half miles away from the school. Those children are limited to a maximum reimbursement of 75% of the school district's reimbursable cost. Governor recommendation $371 million. Page 50, or excuse me, 361 million. Page 55 is a new decision item for transportation funding, again, to get back to that 75% reimbursable amount. Governor recommendation here is for $15.2 million. Page 57 is the core for the small schools, which is $15 million. And then on page 62 is the new decision item that we've discussed a little bit already from Senate Bill 727, which increased this by another $15 million to a total of $30 million for the small schools. Do you know, and I presume you do, because this is a known quantity and it's just a doubling of it, could you provide a list of school districts to which this is applicable to? And then what the breakdown would be for the NDI, which is also presumably equivalent to what they're currently receiving? So let me pose this. Would this be helpful to see a breakdown of formula at $200 million, transportation at $15 million, small schools at $15 million collectively by district to see the combined impact? That'd be wonderful. Would that be helpful? That'd be great. That'd be very, very good. Thank you. Representative Lewis, you may proceed. I think you may have misspoke. Transportation, you were just talking about the NDI, the increase for transportation. Right. The increase to get us back up to 75%, because we underestimated the amount of transportation, because that's not really, I mean, we're just trying to go, we said we were going to fulfill our obligation of 75%, and we missed it by a little bit last year. It's a combination of two factors. We missed it by a little over 1%, less than 1.5%, and so we wanted to make that up and added 3% for growth CPI. Sure, that makes sense. The other, you know, with the small school grants, we doubled that. According to my calculations, and that's just me doing the calculation, I didn't ask you for this, doesn't that work out approximately $400 per child that's in a small school school? I'd have to run those numbers just to make sure. And I may be misspeaking, but I think it's about that much. So when we, if they were getting about $400 per kid with the small school grant, now they'll be getting about $800 a kid for a small school grant, because essentially we doubled it. And so those schools that were struggling, and they weren't on the foundation formula because they're small, and they chose to be hold harmless back in 2006, they haven't increasedsince then much then they're saying well we're going to give you a boost and essentially make you you know maybe help you that was kind of the negotiations in 727 was to make sure that they had enough money to fulfill their as a small school to fill their obligations and to do that bump them up about four hundred dollars per kid so i don't doubt your numbers at all just not not i can't confirm without looking it'd be kind of interesting you could conclude that with the other numbers that you're including on that one if it's because that's a pretty quick calculation it's really divide by you know total number of kids divide by the 15 million thank you representative steinhoff you may perceive an inquiry thank you just continuing that idea of the list and maybe i'm just making assumptions here but we're looking at these are smaller districts i believe you your data said 200 of them uh would benefit 200 of our districts 150 of those districts are in the hold harmless category so they're getting a bump by being held harmless they're getting a bump in small schools grant possibly i want to say likely getting the baseline teacher salary grant but these necessarily some of our poorer districts or not they tend to be smaller rural and having a lower tax base per pupil okay the nature of ag land and so forth all right so i i think if you could include that list in there as well this the baseline teacher grant just all of the ways outside of the formula that some of our districts are being funded from the state the baseline teacher grants a little more complicated because up till this point in time has been optional so that that one is not as easy to marry into this data set but we can we can at least show who's getting that this year and how much they're expected to get right and also i wanted to ask was the i think it said the small schools grant started in 2005 did it start at the 15 million like is this the first time they've had an increase yeah it was part of senate bill 287 way back in 2005 at 15 million it's been that amount the entire time okay thank you thank you mr chair okay we're ready to proceed okay i believe we are on page 65 which is the core for the foundation state board operated programs governor recommendation for 61.7 million dollars and 652 fte this is to operate the one missouri school for the blind the one missouri school for the deaf and the 34 missouri schools for the severely disabled and the students that they serve page 73 is a new decision item for the missouri schools for the severely disabled medicaid spending authority this is our request for an additional three million in federal medicaid funding spending authority to match up with what they are able to draw down so we can in turn use that to pay for medicaid allowed expenses so have we already drawn this down yes so this is just earnings then yes so it could be used for really anything at this point we use it for medicaid allowed expenses well but if it's earnings and if we've drawn it down then it's effectively our well i doubt it really doesn't matter but is this so this is requested as core and ongoing but are we going to have this as earnings are we going to is this going to be generated annually or is this just more one time in nature no we anticipate it being generally generated annually so what um what's the new phenomenon here why are we generating it now when we weren't previously for instance transportation costs have gone up so we're able to pull down more of a match on transportation cost okay so we can um we're we're billing more so it is a medicaid match then is what what is the uh match rate on this do you know that depends on what type of service it is so it varies on transportation you're looking at more of a 50 50 match if you're looking at pt ot st type srt st type services for our students then you're looking at more of the current medicaid match which is about 65 i believe i'm i'm i'm sorry is is a pt would that be physical therapy and what was the other one you mentioned oc occupational therapy speech therapies those kinds of things are medicaid allowed services right and do you know how much general revenue is being matched in this instance for this like the total amount for this that would be in the core for this what is the or where is that coming from because we don't there's not a is there a gr request as it relates to this because if we're doing more than i would think the general revenue call would increase as well but do we have an ndi related to this so on page 65 the general revenue that's showing on that e and e line okay that's where it's coming from you would be used that's what we would be using as the match for these funds so i guess i mean it looks like you have a little bit unexpended there in gr not a lot um but i we we think we have sufficient general revenue authority to because i mean three million if it's 50 50 then that's obviously three million to gr that we've got to spend to get the three million or uh you know if it's the general f map rate it's a little more generous obviously but still that's a i'm just trying to understand where the general revenue is coming from is but it's there it's just so i guess we think we have sufficient authority then i guess is the question yes and we can use general revenue or other state um funds so when you okay lottery you could use because i guess federal government doesn't care how we're coming up with our effort our dollar not there right okay and this is all run through house bill two or what what interaction with with mo health net do we have on this this would be children that are eligible and enrolled in mo health net and this is our fiscal agent drawing a match on their medicaid allowed services so mo health net's doing the billing all of that our fiscal agent does the billing you're doing the billing they're paying the bill and it's showing up here because we're effectively the provider i guess and uh and uh maybe not even i mean that's what we are in this sense okay very good i think i have a little bit better understanding of that now appreciate that for the explanation anything additional on this i think we can move on page 75 then is the core for the pre-kindergarten funding for the mo qp mo q pre-k program this is um a governor recommendation of 65 excuse me i can't speak 26 million dollars um and these are for child care grants to private providers representative lewis you recognize for an inquiry yes thank you well we obviously see the unexpanded on the next page at all but 733 000 of it can you explain that one i mean what's what happened here so for this particular stream we are funding um children that fall in what would in a traditional district be the reduced price gap if you will so yep if they're free they qualify for a full subsidy program for this just like they would any other child care program and so those dollar amounts are roughly equal the way this is structured so it's really those reduce those and fall in the income category of the reduced price that would be eligible for this and that's like the 185 of fbl correct okay 150 to 185 i believe i don't know if whichever one it is okay 150 to 185 and so for the child care providers it's a pretty narrow band that they would be serving for this and in many cases it may not be enough students for them to have a classroom of that sort or the right blending of that and or sometimes they have difficulty finding a teacher that meets the the requirements of the teacher that goes with this as well so it's a combination of factors well we haven't got that money out the door right correct we haven't and and this is you know this is all gr dollars that we didn't get out the door and it's we thought we i mean we obviously thought we would would have put it in the budget but we only did less than a million dollars right not even five percent of the total amount that we thought we were going to use and it's kind of tied in with the next one isn't it also related to that i mean i'm just saying what do you think we are going to get out the door this next year i mean looking at these agencies nothing's going to nothing drastic has changed so why would they why would you expect we're going to we we did receive more in the way of applications so there's as many as 2700 slots that were part of applications for this year that would use you know more than half of this funds that that came to fruition at this point though we don't know how many of those will actually be uh meet the criteria in order to be able to take advantage of this half of it so 13 million something 15 million so i mean i mean when we're looking at if we're looking at you know where are we going to cut back to right size type things you know somewhere here it's not probably going to be 25 million that we're going to need for this line item based on the current trend that that's probably true okay thank you can if a provider receives this can they receive it multiple years running if this continued yes there's not and is this is this and well and all i guess i'll wait till we because get to the next item but are they is this program there was no enabling legislation or statutory is there a statutory uh bill behind this so this was just run through the budget run through the budget eligibility criteria were included in the budget language and so there's no federal obviously it's general revenue but there's there's no the law as it relates to this program is house bill two is a fair approximation okay representative chaplain you may proceed i appreciate uh representative lewis's optimism that there wouldn't be moneythe budget if we didn't intend to spend it. That's great. How many children so far are we talking about here? As I have it the applications have been approximately 2,700 students. 2,700? Correct. Children. Yeah so okay and is this tied to the same payment schedule as the daycare? Is this the same thing? It's not. It's not. So you're not suffering from an IT problem as to why we're not expending the 25 million. This is just an instance wherein we're appropriating 25 million dollars when we have no intention of spending it? I wouldn't say no intention, it's just that it hasn't lined up with the the needs of the provider community at this point. This year? Correct. Yeah if it gets more applications and more opportunities, yeah I'm sure it can grow and grow. I have no doubt. But right now, where we are right now, there's really no way we're gonna spend 25 million dollars of general revenue on this fund is there? At this point that would be my assessment as well. All right sir, thank you very much. Yep, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Next on page 80 is the pre-k local education agency's MOE quality pre-k program. This is a governor recommendation for 55.8 million dollars. This is to help LEAs expand pre-k instruction for children in the year prior to kindergarten. Fiscal year 24 was the first year of this funding and it was in House Bill 20. The awards so far this year are 47 million and the estimated number of slots is 8,322. Representative Lewis, you may proceed with an inquiry. Probably same same type of question here. So you think there's 8,000 slots, right? Yes, 8,322 on the applications we have. So there's 8,000 slots and you're going to 55 million and how many, I mean, what is the cost per child in this? I mean it's it's tied to the SAT. So this one is going to 6,700 but of course you have to multiply that times the 6,770 multiplied by all of the other miscellaneous ups and downs of the SAT of the WADA calculation. Well, for this particular we're just using the DVM as the only multiplier we're using for this grant program. So this is the students in the pre-k cohort, correct? The year prior to kindergarten. Okay, so are we only including four-year-olds, we're not including three? In this grant, just four-year-olds. Okay, and when you say grant this one's all GR money, right? Yes. Okay, so this is all GR. Have, I mean there may have been that many applications, but does that mean that there are schools with that amount of capacity to accept that many kids? Yeah, I don't think in this case they would apply for this funding if they didn't have a plan to have a classroom and a teacher to offer the program. That's the, I guess, I just don't, I don't see that that's true that there's that many slots available, but maybe I'm wrong because that would be a large number of slots that weren't already taken up and I don't see a lot of that build-up having happened, but maybe I'm wrong, but it seems like, I mean there's when you're looking at a school, they're gonna have to have built out their pre-k program and have all those slots open from the previous year to accept these new pre-k kids. So the way we've done this in the in those first couple of years is we'll do a round of grant funding early in the year to where if they want to add a classroom, you know, they've got they've got a teacher available and they've got a space available, they can add a classroom and apply. We've done multiple rounds or if they wanted to add one mid-year, they could do that as well. So I think this one, more so than the prior one, is more likely to play out the way that the applications would tell us. So the 47 million that would be tied to the current number of slots is pretty realistic in our mind, maybe even more so than the prior item. So 47 million is what you would have if you just did all the slots that we think we had applications for in the previous year. No, from the current. For the current year, but I mean, well, it would be the previous year for next year. Correct. And this is this is allowing for growth. Is that why you have it at 55? Right. We assume it's there's been growth from last year this year. We assume that will continue. But we weren't funding it. I mean, we don't see any number here in our 2024 budget. What were we, how were we funding that? It was in House Bill 20 last year. It was in House Bill 20. Yeah. Was it for the buildings that were being built out or was it only for the subsidization, subsidizing of the kids? It just got placed in House Bill 20 for a variety of procedural issues. Because I remember seeing it, that's why I kind of was expecting to see it here. Yeah. But it's not. And that was 47 million? It was 55 million, the same budget amount. And how much was expended? I don't have that at our fingertips. Yeah, that'd be a good one for us to know, right, how much was expended of that in House Bill 20. Because I don't remember, I know, see, I remember seeing it, hearing it, but I didn't, I guess I was expecting to see it here and I don't see it here. So that would be an important thing to know for this line item. So, appreciate it. Thank you. Representative Hine, you're recognized for an inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good afternoon. I need some help understanding the differences between this, the previous line item and the current line item. So let me, I'm gonna say this and then maybe you can correct me to see if I'm understanding correctly. So the first one, the previous line item, that was more for private providers that we put in there to, for those communities that may not have been able to handle a pre-k situation, like get it up and running, we could then go to a private provider and contract out? Is that what that was for? Not necessarily. It could be for a private provider just to expand their services. Okay. So it doesn't have to be in conjunction with the school district. We just wanted to, my recollection of it is when it was added to the budget was to make sure there was a similar opportunity for private providers. Okay. Because in some communities the school district can't do it and other communities they can and likewise some communities don't have a private provider and vice versa. So that was their, kind of the way to equalize the field right there. Opportunities in both sectors. Perfect. Okay, so that's private and then this one is strictly for our public LEAs? Correct. Okay. But they can contract with a private provider as part of this fund as well. Okay, thank you. I appreciate that clarification. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Davidson, you recognize for an inquiry? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was just following on Representative Lewis's line of inquiry. I was looking down in the notes on page 81. It says the FY 2024 expenditures were just shy of 12 million, 11 million seven hundred seventy eight thousand forty one dollars. And so you know there's over 40 million dollars I guess that was unexpended then from that year and so what I guess I'm just kind of following up with that line of thinking of where do you anticipate 43 million dollars being needed for this year? So I think part of what we experience here is the fact that this was a new grant program last year and so uptake both on the school district perspective and the private providers perspective, it doesn't happen all at once. And so I appreciate you pointing out that we actually had the answer to the question in here for Representative Lewis. I just had escaped me at the time. But I think we can see already with the school districts, they have some infrastructure that they can put into play here and so we saw a significant increase in the number of applications and the number of slots that they're requesting. So now the 47 million that are projected based on the current year applications, they may not all end up being filled and reimbursed. So it wouldn't surprise me that it's going to be if it were end up a little bit lower than that number. But it's going to be significantly higher than the eleven point seven million that we had last year. Okay thank you. How many times can an LEA receive this funding? Is it annual or is it just like CI type initiatives or could it be for programmatic like well I'd love to do it and we've got the space and we actually have everything but I just don't have a teacher so if you'd pay for the teacher then that'd be great. Is that you know are they under the impression or understanding that we're going to be there every year? Help me understand the dynamics there and what this is grant funding is applicable to. Right within the grant guidance documents and the prioritization there there are different levels of priority for applications. At this point we've been able to fund anybody that's requested it. So they can get it multiple years. It's not a startup grant it's an operational type of a grant to help them with teacher costs or any other related costs. So they can get it from year to year but what could happen over time at some point if we get enough interest to where it's using all the appropriation we'll have to go into prioritization then at that point and we're going to based on the budgetary language we would prioritize free and reduced lunch students first and so forth. Okay and just to make sure I understand in the previous conversation 11 million almost 12 million 11.7 million was expended in FY 24. You said there's 47 million that has shown a desire or a need or that's kind of hanging out there. The 11 million is not part of the 47 million so it's really it'd be 40 so that's 40 that's 47 million for FY 26 that you're anticipating or speaking of. No the 47 million is in this year the FY 25 year. The applications for this current year would generate 47 million roughly. Okay I appreciate that clarification so it's in FY 25 the current fiscal year we're in but the 11 million 11.7 is it's not 47It's I guess it is 47 plus because 47 million for FY 25 the 11.7 was FY 24 and then FY 26 is to be determined. That's correct but I would say the 11 million for 24 could be a lot of the same providers receiving it a second time in 25. I see the 47 million have you made awards to that amount? Yes that's correct. Could you provide us a list of the awards and I guess the districts and for that? Much appreciated. Okay I think we can continue. I'm sorry Representative Davidson you may proceed once more. Sorry for coming back I just had some follow-up questions. So as I understand it this is tied to the SAT and then there's going to be a separate line item regarding to the child care subsidy programs and those are based off of market rates or a percentage of a market rate is that correct? Yes for subsidy providers. And I know we're kind of hopping around here but I I see it all is as relatively connected so what what is that approximate market rate in comparison to the SAT? Well I don't know I could speak directly to market rate but what I could speak to is the subsidy reimbursement rate and when this was set up my understanding was that a student that was receiving full subsidy a child were getting full subsidy that amount for the time period that they would be in a pre-k program was roughly equivalent to what the grant was going to fund based on the SAT. There was a lot of overlap there in terms of those being comparable numbers. Such to the point that we don't we don't use or we don't include the full subsidy children in the provider rates because they're already eligible for a full subsidy so we would be we would be putting state money in something that they're eligible for federal funds. So we're not doing that so they're not eligible but the ones that are just outside of that range that fall in a school district in the reduced lunch price range they would be eligible for the program. Okay yeah and I'm curious about this I'm gonna try to pin down that number a little more accurately because I have heard about issues within the child care community within the child care provider community that there's like a sort of competition that then exists between your various state programs and then your child care programs and I'm wondering how these pre-k LEA fit within that kind of that that puzzle of what are we doing with our our kids you know before they before they enter into the school system. Yeah I think the intent of the way these were structured was to be roughly comparable so that one wouldn't have an unfair advantage over the other that was at least the intent it's not a it's not a perfect line to draw necessarily because there's other conditions that play into this but it was trying to make it economically roughly the same. Okay thank you. I believe we can continue thank you. Page 85 this is the school district trust fund this is Prop C 1.3 billion dollars recommended by the governor. Page 90 this is the school district bond fund $492,000 recommended by the governor to help the student help the schools get their low interest rates on their general obligation bonds. Page 95 is the career foundation foundation career education core for 52 million dollars for CTE programs in 444 LEAs and 20 post-secondary programs. This is the match for the Perkins program that we'll talk about later in book three. Page 100 is the school foods program and this is recommended by the governor for 352 million dollars. Page 106. Representative Steinhoff you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you. Can you clarify or just remind us of the history on this school lunch appropriation I know COVID and funds might have affected that can you summarize that? During the first two years of the pandemic there was a provision put in place by US Department of Agriculture to provide seamless summer option which is basically a free lunch program during the course of the school year so all kids could eat free during that period of time if the schools signed up for that program if you will. So our appropriation amount went up fairly significantly because we were doing much higher reimbursements on top of that they had some higher reimbursement rates in general during that time period because there were such a supply shortages and things of the of the sort back at that time. Those have now all expired and we're kind of back to what I would consider a more traditional funding model if you will. The rates are a little better obviously than they were because they do try to try to track with inflation over time but we don't have that luxury of everybody eats free like we did for a couple of years. And that significant lapse over the last couple years is probably because you had alternative funding, is that right? This line item was elevated and we have core reduced then some of those extra funds that we talked about so that's part of the reason why you see the overall appropriation number going down over that period of time. We went from that higher reimbursement rate when all kids eating free back down a little bit. And I know there's a lot of bills out there potentially going back to providing free lunches, do you think these appropriations from during COVID would be appropriate to kind of guess how much that might cost our state? Adjusted by some inflationary measure that would be close. Thank you, thank you Mr. Chair. Representative Kupfs you may proceed. I want to go back to 95 just for just for a second that's our Perkins match correct that's the GR portion for our Perkins match. Are we getting all of the available Perkins federal dollars that are available to us? Yes we are we have a supplemental and a new decision item for more federal authority for Perkins so we can get more of that pushed out to the district. Okay but it we won't have we're not tying our own hands in any way we're we're going to with the supplemental and with this we'll be able to get 100% of what's available to us correct? Yes. Okay thank you. Representative Christensen you have an inquiry? No? Okay all right I think we can proceed. Representative Martin you do have an inquiry you may proceed. Yeah I had the very last second here. Quick question regarding when I see this the the funding for these 444 secondary local education agencies so those are those those are vo-tech schools within a district is that right? What item are you on Representative Martin or page number? Page 95 I'm sorry page 95 under the career and technical CTE programs page 95. So the 444 would include a comprehensive high school or a career center. Okay gotcha and then we say the 20 post-secondary local education agencies what would that what we get give an example of that? Community colleges primarily. Okay so the community college okay like that okay. And then I kind of a follow-up with that talking about the Perkins funding for the career technical ed that's in a different book but the industrial technology that that's not something that's covered here. Industrial technology courses. As I recall industrial technology does not fall under one of the Perkins criteria if you will to where it would be considered of the traditional CTE even though we all think of it that way it doesn't meet the criteria for one reason or another. Right like the shop classes and things like that that some some high schools provide. Correct. Right okay. Representative Proudy you have something on this item? Yes. School nutrition you may proceed. Thank you. Well on the career and technical ed we. Very well please proceed. Thank you so much Mr. Chairman. We do still there's a recommendation for workforce diploma am I correct? Is it coming up? Okay. Yeah that's in book three as well. Perfect a little nervous. Thank you. Okay I think we would be ready or are ready to go to 106 and the ESSER core but this I think there's gonna be some questions there and so I think this is probably a good point for a clean break we are gonna have to this room is otherwise obligated here in just a couple of minutes and so we will have to recess for that purpose and then of course session is coming up at four o'clock so we will come back say ten minutes upon adjournment to give people enough time to walk down here hopefully and we will start promptly ten minutes upon adjournment right here on page 106 and we will stand in recess until that point in time and would ask everyone to clear the room. Thank you.