FY 23 was, of course, the first year of the funding program, but it says the department has lapsed funds because a large number of school districts did not submit a budget for the grant and request any reimbursement. And I think, you know, with that alone, you know, there's probably some aspersions that would come to the department. So you add an additional sentence. All school districts were made aware of the grant through several, not one, I don't even think two, several that's got to be three or more, communication methods. And I don't, I was here, but forgive me, I don't remember when this went in the conversation, but I have to imagine it was something to the effect of this is necessary and the districts they just don't have the money or they'd already done them, maybe some of them have done it. If they just had the money they would, you know, and it appears that that's evidently not even the case because we're just, and I go back to, you know, whatever the reserve is, 30%. I mean, I think they had the money all along. Obviously, you know, if it was a priority, this isn't, I mean, this is a 650, well, it's gonna be 650, a million for the whole state, six million people. What could it be per district? Not that much. So we're gonna pay for it all, but yet there's a large number of school districts that said, yeah, we just, you know, even if you give us the money, we just, we're not interested, no thanks. I guess, I mean, what else am I to make of this? Well, first of all, I don't, it was not something the department requested initially, but we do feel like it's filling some need for somebody, obviously, but some districts already have a mechanism in place, I'm sure, that would help take care of those kind of needs without relying on some state support to do that. So that's my, that's my intuition speaking. And you think that applies to a large number of school districts, that that would be, so there, so a lot, or to use your language, a large number of school districts were already doing this, I guess, is what you think maybe is likely to happen. That could be the case, and also some of our smaller districts, their allocation on a million-wide, a million-dollar statewide grant would be so small, they may not think it's worth the administrative time to pursue the funds. And so they may be just not, not doing it at all. Okay, very good. We're on to round two now, Representative Brown, you may proceed. Thank you. So as a person who has purchased these items out of my own, out of my own purse, which, it's not a program, it's just, you know, I purchased it, can I ask for this money? Can I personally, as, you know, Dr. Rachel Prouty's school counselor, can I apply to DESE to get reimbursed? I get that the school districts weren't doing it, and the school districts, the district, at the district level certainly didn't tell the teachers who were in those classrooms or in these offices that there's some kind of reimbursement, because I'm sure they would have insisted that they participate, but because the school district, district didn't, I'm happy to use my, my reach to tell the teachers who do purchase these things that they can get reimbursed if individual teachers and individuals who purchase these items, if their school isn't participating, to get reimbursement. So is there something that teachers can do personally to get reimbursed for these funds? We don't have a mechanism in place for individual teachers for this particular program. We, from a practical standpoint, for us to administer this, we need to work through the districts. It's just, just, but you're picking up what I'm putting down. I am. Yeah, so I can't personally be reimbursed, but as long as the child has the items she needs, I don't think it really, you know, I get, I get where we're going with this, and I'm certainly not trying to say that teachers cover the majority of the expense, but I mean, it would sure be helpful if we could petition our government to get reimbursed for the funds. We spend out the kindness of our heart for these children. Thank you. Continue, please. Oh, I'm sorry, how could I forget, Representative Owen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can, I can tell you where 46 of these, why 46 of these districts did not request this, and that's because they're working through a group called Care to Learn, which we just discussed earlier, some funding. They're working in Southwest Missouri and South Central Missouri with school districts. They make the communities, though, also raise money, too, and so they offset some of the costs. They get it in bulk, and it discounts, and they do so much more clothes, everything, but there might be other places around the state that are doing the same type thing cooperatively, but that's at least takes care of 46 of the school districts why they're not, why they're not requesting it. I guess we're not quite ready to move along. Representative Douglas, you may proceed, and then we'll go to Representative Cupps. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you all for taking the time to take our inquiry. As I was reading, it said that the program was being accessed by the school nurses. If the school nurses, or there's not a school nurse, or they're on some type of part-time level, can someone else in the district apply for this, like your McKinney-Mentor Homes liaison, or someone that's over your student support services? Yes, the superintendent of the district administration can identify anybody to be the person that would be the grant manager, so to speak. Okay, excellent, thank you. Representative Cupps, you may proceed. Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to comment. I think it's clear that Representative Martin, although I have the utmost respect for him, has never been a 22-year-old male teacher in a public school system, because if you've ever had that awkward situation exist in your classroom, you might say that this, I don't care how much of it were lapsed, and I, as to Representative Prouty's point, if we don't have a clean and comfortable place where students can go and learn without the risk of embarrassment, it's like, what is the point of public school unless that scenario environment, for lack of a better term, exists? And so sometimes I think we get caught up on some of this stuff, but if you look at the grand scheme of the amount of money we spend, you want me to find waste in the average public school system? I don't necessarily think maybe this is the place we need to be looking. So just remember, in some of this stuff, look at it from the eyes of the actual teachers, we talk about educators, look at it at the eyes, we talk about teacher attention, how would I think about this if I was a fresh-out-of-college 22-year-old educator, what would I think about it then? So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Page 455. Page 455 is a new decision item for the STAR Academy, recommended by the governor for $1 million. This is a turnkey intervention program for middle school students that gives them a hands-on opportunity at STEM curriculum. What school district would this go to? We would have to do some type of application process and identify some prioritization. We have not established that yet at this point. All right, thank you. That takes us to book four, which is halfway through, yes. And this is the Office of Quality Schools. The first core is on page 457. This is competency-based education. This was another one of the programs established by Senate Bill 681. It was originally funded with a $2 million transfer. We have used the funds from there and finished out the grants, and so there's no longer any dollars here, and we are recommending that this be reduced to zero. Page 462 is the core for the Missouri Scholars and Fine Arts Academy. This is governor recommendation of $850,000. It covers a three-week Scholars Academy at MU and a two-week Fine Arts Academy at MSU for Missouri's academically gifted student. At this point, there's no fees for these students in fiscal year 25. Page 467 is the core for the Recovery High School. This was one-time funding of $500,000, core reduced to zero. The application deadline for this has been extended to March 1st, and we have two or three school districts that are considering making an application for this. Representative Black, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Looks to me like there was money for this in FY 24 as well. And no one applied. That was one-timed and nobody applied, and it was one-timed again. In 24, it was limited to a certain geographical area, and this year it's more broader, so we have this kind of a statewide opportunity this year. Yeah, that was my recollection that, in fact, maybe in 24 it was limited to maybe one school or something, very, very small. I believe it described one school district in the appropriation language. And we fixed that, and we still don't have many takers. We have two or three, if not four, districts that are considering making an application for these startup funds, and they did not, they have not indicated for sure that they're going to yet. Starting one of these high schools is a logistical undertaking, and so they're being very thoughtful about whether or not they want to proceed with that, and I think there's a good chance we'll have one or two by the March 1st deadline that want to pursue the path. And that's this fiscal year, and so, I mean, how much money can we get out the door? This would be next fiscal year. Well, it's zeroed. Right. For this fiscal year, it's really just seed money for some initial work to start the startup process. It would take much more than the funds we have here to start one of these schools. They're going to have some local district commitment that they're going to need to put into this to make it work. So some school district this year mightRepresentative Christensen, you now may proceed with your inquiry. Thanks, sorry. Just real quick, do we have a plan to spend the, it looks like we've been lapsing around three million dollars and we haven't really spent too much in 25. Of course, we're only in two months then. Do we have a plan to not lapse that or do you think it'll probably lapse again? The lapse has been in federal funding. Right. And we spend to the extent that we can out of admin from federal dollars, but many of our grants will have like a admin cap of a certain percentage. So the other thing I would add is a lot of our federal program folks, if they do shared work between a federal program and some other program, we allocate their time according to how much they spend on the federal program. So that's why there might be a variance there, at least to a certain extent, is that we we do, we can only charge the federal grant what they're actually working on that grant. Okay, thanks. Okay, page 164 is the federal grant for the state longitudinal data system. This is for 1.8 million dollars. This is a four-year federal grant to include, to improve the current statewide longitudinal data system and infrastructure. This will make it easier to share data between departments and reduce the need for data cleanup. We obviously, you know, I remember a lot of talk about this in House Bill 20 and use, you know, federal dollars for this. So this is the same thing, is it's just, well, it's an add-on, it's additional, but it's the, it's the same type of system or it's an add-on to that what we've appropriated for in the last year or two with ARPA dollars? Yes, but this is from a dedicated grant program from the federal level, so rather than us making the choice, we applied for this grant and received it to further that work. Now, if we take this, does this obligate us to any kind of maintenance of effort or is this, if this, if when this runs out, would there be a GR pickup for this or is this just kind of wholly contained? It should be wholly contained. Okay, and what, remind me who on this longitudinal, is that how you say that? Does that sound right? Longitudinal. I guess that's a word, surely. It's a new one for me. Is that, who, what kind of data specifically is it and who manages that data? Is that held on our systems or is that on the cloud or a vendor? It's like data that Desi and Dude share with each other and they describe the data that we have right now as kind of a flat file and I am not an IT person, so this is a more smart way to store data, to be able to search it, to share it in a more secure manner without having to do a lot of data cleanup. Do you know or we, I assume that it's the vendor who's, has this information or where's this information being stored? Is it on our kind of servers or system or is it, it's out there in the cloud or do you know? Well, I don't know that I could say for absolute sure, but typically that data has been stored on a state server, but I know ITSD is moving more of their storage to a cloud-based program, cloud-based services, so I think it's possible that it could be either or in this particular case. Very good. Representative Chappell, you may proceed with an inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just very briefly, who is the vendor for this? I'll be out, I'm not sure we've identified a vendor yet. Okay, so a lot of this is tied to the P20W effort that Dude is actually leading, but I don't know that I could tell you exactly who the vendor would be with this. We'll have to get back to you, I'm sorry. I would appreciate it, thank you. Okay, I think we're ready to continue. Page 168 is the core for the Excellence in Education Fund, Governor recommendation of 3.2 million and 13.75 FTE. This is the fund where teacher certification fees are deposited and the fees also for teachers attending various conferences that DESE puts on and then we in turn use those to host the next conferences. Representative Steinhoff, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. Is this like a revolving fund then, and what are the allowable uses for the money? I see it as called it, did I see training? I might be thinking of a different one, but is it more than training? Like could it be used for districts to pay for subs if they're not? No, we mostly have used it for conferences and the trainings that we're providing and just doing on a cost recovery basis. And is this the only place this fund is used? It does fund some of the staff that do teacher certification as well. So is it another spot in the budget? No, it's just here I believe. One of the reasons I'm asking is it does look like it it tends to lapse the last few years and if I was looking correctly I think it has a five million dollar balance right now and just wondering if potentially we could use it in other places depending on what you know the allowable uses. It is established via statute, staff has confirmed, so we would have to follow within that whatever the statutory requirements are for the fund. Okay, thank you. Page 174 is the last core in book 1 and this is for the adult learning and rehabilitative services. This is governor recommendation for 42.5 million six hundred and fifty eight FTE. This is the personnel and the operating cost for administering voc rehab disability determinations and the independent living programs. Representative Christensen, you have an inquiry you may proceed. Yep, just same as like the last one. So it looks like we had about 3.9 million and 24 unexpended. It seems to be that's kind of like the trend. Do we have a plan to not lapse 3.9 or kind of about the same as normal? I think one of the challenges we have in particular here this is covering a lot of the staffing costs. Yes. Disability determinations, for example, they authorize when we can initiate the hiring process. So it's not uncommon for them to let vacancies go open for a period of three to six months or what have you and then they'll approve hiring X number of positions and with the idea they were all brought in and trained at the same time. So because we don't necessarily control in that particular section when we can actually do the hiring this could happen from year to year but these are dedicated federal dollars for the program so we don't really have much option to do otherwise with it. Thank you. Okay, I think that takes us to book two. Book two begins Office of Educator Quality. On page 180 is the core for career ladder for 69.3 million dollars. Career ladder programs support salary supplements for teachers to provide compensation for additional responsibilities and voluntary hours. Last year over 16,000 teachers received extra compensation for providing extra hours of teaching service including over 370,000 hours of additional tutoring for students. I know that you know kind of got the program going again and that's the same time that the the grant for the salaries so some school districts maybe didn't do career ladder and they did that and then now they're doing career ladder so the uptake and I'm what I'm getting at you know you look at 181 obviously FY 23 you know 21 million pretty big jump you know FY 24, 32 but we're still lapsing a lot. My question is have we received interest from additional school districts for FY 26 and do we have projections that would suggest that the 69 million is you know that we're actually going to need that and it's not in reality something less than that which to date it has been but you know understanding if the uptake is happening and all of those things. What I can tell you is for FY 25 we're up to 249 districts 18,000 teachers the projected amount for that is 44.7 so that would have grown from 21 to 32 to 44 we're on that path now not all of those teachers will complete the hours and make it to the full amount but we are seeing that trend to where I can see continued growth in that regard. Have you already had I mean when does that cycle work would you already have school districts reaching out to you or indicating you for FY 26 or would like when would you start to know that or can they basically sign up at any point in time or how does that what are the timelines on that? We create an application window and I believe it is late spring, April. All right it's too late for me but we'll know more I guess and that would be for FY 26? Correct. Okay so what we know for FY 25 is we've got 249 districts it would indicate up to 44.7 million dollars and in dollars although that probably won't be quite that high but we're potentially have a liability of that. What what was the number of school districts for FY 24 and if you don't have that you can get that back with me or is that in here somewhere as far as the we're at 249 for this fiscal year what were the number of school districts for? 205. 205 okay so I mean we're at half basically now so I it'll be interesting I assume we never get to 500 but so at some point it will and this number couldn't have been for a projection of that surely because we'd need more than that.that right I think part of that projection had to do with when the statute was changed it lowered the number of years of service needed and we did some kind of estimation to get cost impact related to that I think we were close to 350 districts back ten plus years ago when it was an operation before so I think over time we could easily get back to there at least representative Lewis you may proceed yeah so I pretty familiar with this so correct me if I'm wrong previously before we made the statutory changes to the career ladder it was 40 60 now it's 60 40 state local correct correct so we've taken on a little bit more of the burden trying to encourage schools to participate but also 40% trying to get them to spend some of their site their own funds to enhance the teachers salaries of those teachers that are that have been here at least more than a couple years right and so that this is a way of trying to get money not just into the baseline teachers but into those that are not just at the very very bottom correct and those willing to do above and beyond to those who are extra duties yeah and we and we kind of crafted some changes on that I think that I went to statute last year and that was that those people those teachers that were participating could do it within the school day in the school hours as long as was extra duty like if they're tutoring people and they have a open prep period they could tutor in that prep period instead of maybe tutoring afterwards I think you know anecdotally at least that's been somewhat of a success I think so too and that in reality when a teacher agrees to do that during the school day they're just pushing their planning and other work they're doing their planning more after school when the when the students may have sports activities but during that prep time they could they could help them well appreciate you appreciate that I do think that probably 69 million it will be would be overly optimistic but you know well that remains to be seen maybe 50 million you know there about somewhere in there but what did you say was your what you think you've got commitments for or this year 44.7 so you would be growing at the rate of 12 million roughly a year over the last couple of years okay thank you representative Steinhoff you may proceed thank you I want to continue along with that I I think many people that know me know I'm not a real fan of this being the way that we are kind of retaining the baseline salary grant was to kind of recruit to get teachers at the beginning I think the reason we made this decision it was a mechanism to be able to get money into the hands of more experienced teachers so I'm gonna ask you the same question I asked last year do you believe that if we could agree that you could get this money into the hands of all of our experienced teachers maybe if we said those who are not being impacted with the baseline salary grant without a legislative change with just an appropriation change I think that would be really difficult unless we're gonna tie it to additional duties I think that's the the challenge with contract law and teacher tenure law within Missouri I think identifying additional duties and pairing that somehow together would would be my understanding of how it would need to work okay and if we could do that if we could make it tied to duties but maybe take out all of the checks that our districts are having to spend time on with these plans that our teachers are having to spend time spend time on just let them commit to doing the extra work and getting the extra money then we wouldn't have to rely on whether a district is going to choose to participate or not participate but what I think I'm hearing from you it would depend on how we would craft that language you would have to be very carefully crafted I would think okay thank you thank you mr. chair page 186 is the core for teacher baseline salary the current core is thirty three point four million dollars general revenue we will be working with house budget to make a correction to this form because the governor recommendations should actually show that the thirty three point four million is on the transfer line as this is being transferred into the teacher baseline salary grant fund that was newly established in Senate bill 727 representative Chapel you have an inquiry please proceed I do thank you for clearing that up by the way because it did it was I was I was really amazed that they got to the last dollar and they were identical between the two lines and so that that thank you I do I do I am curious so I'm looking at the math and I don't mean to skip ahead to page 192 but that is where the math is found or 195 rather the math in box 4 doesn't seem to be mapping exactly right because of it's asking for five point seven million which was what the department's original ask was and then then the governor's rec is the identical amount as what this line item is but in this core item over the last two years of course you've been averaging a 64% lapse rate and yet we're almost doubling the last two years average appropriation so can you help me with the math I can help a little bit so when we put this estimate together say we're doing that in September for this cycle if you will we're basing it on all of our teacher data from last year and so we're to the point now where we have good teacher data for this school year and so when we've in fact not asked for the five point seven million and the governor didn't recommend it as an increase we don't need it the other difference that we have is that it's been an optional program for districts at this point and it's still technically I guess an optional grant program as it's contrived here but where districts could either choose to raise their salary to forty thousand or not in the past now the statute requires that they do that so I think we will have a much higher participation rate you know we're if we're averaging you know you make I think we're somewhere around three hundred and forty or fifty districts this year there are somewhere in the neighborhood of four hundred and thirty six districts we think will be eligible based on the day that we have now so I think there will be more of those that will go ahead and participate because it's now required you get to forty thousand and required you get forty six thousand for a master's and ten years experience all right thank you very much so then on page 192 the governor has recommended zero they're realizing that we have enough money in the core to cover the cost for going to forty six thousand dollars for the teachers with a master's degree and ten plus years of experience then on 195 do you know on 193 and I appreciate you know more information is always better there's some detail they're provided relating to data it says based on research from January to February 2024 reflecting average pay for the 2023 2024 school year and it gives neighboring states including Missouri that you know in parentheses for Missouri it says includes the impact of teacher baseline salary but this wouldn't be total compensation would it is there a way to calculate that I mean I don't know how easy it'd be to get that from other states but I wonder I mean I see Arkansas which I border have know a lot of people that teach in Arkansas public schools there at 50,000 which is the highest I guess on this list which it's it was I forget I don't know if it was 25 but it was much more like where we were until learns a year or two ago and it's 50 but you know the salary schedule and virtually every Arkansas public school is really simple it's teacher $50,000 because they compressed to the you know they didn't and they didn't as I understand it the state Arkansas didn't give the district's money by which it's just the law you know figure it out and so that's you know created some consternation as I understand it with the teachers of Arkansas if you've been there a few years but our number doesn't factor in which I understand it's additional duties but I don't know does Kansas have a career ladder equivalent and you know so I wonder what the average is and total compensation but would it is it possible to get those numbers when you say total compensation we could get average teacher salary in total this was demonstrating kind of the first year teacher data that we would have here but we have average so if we did that that would include career ladder but that's just average teacher so it's it's not gonna be as granular as this is just first year correct and we don't have the benefits you know the retirement and the health benefits and things by teacher we don't collect that information so if you're talking about that kind of total compensation we wouldn't have that level of detail but we might have some other salary points we could compare yeah I would be curious on and it would be interesting to compare it to this and I realize in this item is for more entry-level teachers perhaps likely maybe unless it's a very small school district or something but I would be curious if you had that what you did have as far as on the average for compensation and how that equated to this that would be be interesting to see represent black you may proceed Thank You mr. chair very quick so states providing this funding for the teachers and the master's teachers at different levels the other costs that are likely to escalate based on history like the PSRS contribution insurance cost contribution is the state doing anything to help pick those up we are with the PSRS costs and the Medicare payroll tax this we add 16 percent in this there for the included benefits and that's PSRS and the Medicare 1.45 percent tax or whatever that is so we do have an add-on of 16 percent to cover that part of it okay and it as part of the 40 so you got the 40 then you addPSRS and the Medicaid tax, Medicare tax, to whatever it takes to bump that to 40, is that right? Or is that included in the 40? So the 40 would be salary only, so if the teacher would otherwise have made 35, there's 5,000 there, we add 16% to that, which is $800, so the grant amount would be $5,800. I think you said that before, but I think I missed it, but not the insurance. Correct. Thank you. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You brought up a point I just want to make sure I'm clear on. So the reason we don't have all the data on how much teachers are making in every facet of this, that's, correct me if I'm wrong, that's because they're not state employees? That's part of it for sure. Just as MoDOT doesn't have clear data on Public Works employees around other public political subdivisions, we don't have control over that because they're not actually state employees, correct? That's true. All right, sir, thank you. I think we're on 195, does that sound right? Yes, so 195 is the actual program dollars from the new teacher baseline salary grant program, recommended by the governor for the $33.4 million. So whenever we have a transfer and program dollars, so it looks like two appropriations, only one of those is counted. So it counts from the transfer where the GR comes out to begin with, it does not count in the total of the bill for the actual program spending dollars that's found on page 195. Page 198 is the core for the urban teaching program. I'm sorry, I'm gonna go back, Representative Lewis, do you have a question on that? I just want to make sure that the $33,421,000 is the total amount we're paying that we anticipate we may pay out for the minimum baseline teacher grant from the state side for both our baseline teachers and our master's plus 10 years of experienced teachers this coming year, $33,421,000? Correct. Okay, that's the total amount and next year even if there is a increase or in three years there, you know, there'll be a master's increase the first year but there won't be a CPI increase. But when that starts then it'll start to grow a little bit but otherwise we might anticipate it even going down a little. Good point, I was gonna make that reference. What we've seen so far is districts are investing more in their teacher salary schedules in addition to what this is covering, so the call is actually coming down on a per teacher basis over time. So I think it's very likely and that's why we didn't need the $5.7 million this year. Because there had been other investments in salary schedules, we didn't need it to cover the master's step. Which I think is kind of what we were hoping. But the $5 million is not necessary, that's just was something that you thought you might need to pick up the change, if you will, in the master's plus 10 years experience, not going to need that. $33,000 is it? Yes, correct. And that was based on last year's data. And maybe next year, maybe we don't even fill out the $33,000, maybe it's $32,000, $31,000, $28,000 and that's what we hope. Very possible. Okay, thank you. Page 198 is the core for the Urban Teaching Program Governor recommendation for $1.7 million. This program provides responsive pivotal solution to educators through highly selective recruitment to introduce and support new talent in the teaching profession in districts in St. Louis and Kansas City. Page 204 is the core for the Teacher of the Year Program. This is for $40,000 a year. These funds provide rewards including public recognition and awards banquet and donated gifts. Page 210 is the core for the Teacher Recruitment and Retention Scholarship Transfer. This is for $800,000. This is in recognition that a major cause of an ongoing teacher shortage is the cost of the high-quality comprehensive teacher preparation programs. Page 215 is a new decision item to increase the Teacher Recruitment and Retention State Scholarship Transfer by $1.6 million. This is in accordance with Senate Bill 727 that laid out a schedule of increased transportation, or excuse me, scholarship dollars. This at one at an increase of 1.6 would have covered an additional 400,000 scholarships. This was not recommended by the governor. Excuse me, 400 scholarships. Representative Lewis, you may proceed with an inquiry. I hate to stop us and slow us down, but obviously I've got a, so the governor is, did he not, I mean maybe you can't answer this, but we have the $800,000 from last year and the $800,000, is that only $800,000 that's in there now or is the $800,000 in there twice so it's going to be $1.6 million? He didn't recommend any additional funds going in? It's just the $800,000. Again, repeated for next year. So he's just doing $800,000, $800,000? Correct. Did we dissipate the $800,000 that was already there in scholarships to teachers or students wanting to be teachers in Missouri? Last year we expended I believe the $647,000. This year we're still in process because their statutory requirements were a little more specific because of the bill language. Just just walked out of the committee to trying to change those to make them a little more specific or a little less specific? Well, and that's appreciated, but in this particular case we're, you know, last year we worked a scholarship program through the EPP programs. We made that work, but this year we're trying, we're building a module that actually takes into consideration the financial aid available and all that piece. So we're we're trying to mirror something that Dude has in their IT solution for this program as well. Perfect. Still a work in progress. So would you be able to give out enough scholarships if it was fully funded at 1.6 like the statute, like SB 727 asked for? For next year? For next year. I believe that's highly likely. You think you could do that? I think so. So we've got, like I said, I'm qualifying just a little bit because we've got work to do. Well we know we didn't get all of the 800 out. I'm not saying we're gonna get every dime out the door, that's not, but would 1.6 be a feasible amount? And it is, it is required in Senate Bill 727. I mean it's part of 727 as well. It's spelled out in there, correct. Okay, thanks. Page 225 then was the program spending for the teacher recruitment and retention state scholarship. So this 1.6 mirrors the previous 1.6 that we were talking about. Page 229 is the core for grow your own. The department request was for 2.5 million. The governor did not recommend this funding. This is used to recruit future teachers from the community as those are shown to be most likely that to then go back to that community to teach. Page. Representative Fogle, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. Can you just briefly touch on why you think the governor maybe didn't recommend this funding? Was it not successful? Did we not see the program accomplishing what it set out to accomplish? So we've been doing some version of grow your own with relief funds and then this line item appropriation for the last several years collectively and I think we've had I think some pretty good success with it. I would put this in with several line items we're going to see over the next couple of books that are probably good programs, probably have a lot of functionality and have been working in some form or fashion, but when you look at the overall request there's 464 million dollars of GR in these these different budget line items being requested and there were a lot of tough decisions I think had to be made and this might be one of those that just for whatever reason didn't make it to the finish line so to speak in the recommendation. If we were able to find funding for it it's something that the department thinks is beneficial and you'd like to see continue it was just cut based specific or based solely on you had to make tough decisions? That would be my read of the situation. Okay, thanks. Representative Steinhoff, you were recognized for an inquiry. Thank you. I don't I don't know if you'll know the answer to this but the state board meeting in January where we get to see the recruitment and retention report, if I recall correctly there was some pretty interesting data around the grow your own programs that the longitudinal piece is starting to show more positive results than just single snapshots. Is that true? I mean, Dr. Katnick could probably give us a dissertation on that but yes I think the trend data would tell us that we're having fairly good success on the recruitment side by utilizing this approach and here's how I would characterize it. I was a high school student who had a teacher say don't become a teacher right and now we've kind of tried to change that dialogue to be let's identify folks who we think do have the capacity to be a teacher and try to bring them along and try to encourage them and I was pretty lucky to have a couple good mentors that did that for my benefit it kept me in the idea of wanting to be a teacher so there's value in it there's no two ways about it we know most of our teachers stay close to home they teach somewhere close to where they grew up and this is a way to try to build that pipeline so I think there's some real value. Is it also fair to say that maybe when we began looking at these programs we were trying to get a teaching staff that looked like our students more closely but we're also seeing the benefits that our rural areas are able to bring some teachers into some hard to fill areas? I think it's been helpful across the board. Good. If it's possible to get that report to the commit theI think it would help them see the benefits of this program and other things that we're doing to recruit and retain. Thank you Representative black you may proceed with an inquiry. Thank you. Mr. I'm sure you said that 400 Almost 500 million dollars gr. And then you said if we did this you said we got it Maybe we've got to look at some of these expenditures and if this funding had been included Would it be in what we call in the foundation formula? It would it would not this is a separate line item That's separate completely from the formula. That's what I thought. So I know enabling statute with with that this be your reference to the 497 or whatever that number was in the NDI for the formula was just a general reference with the overall Across all of our budget within the department if I recall correctly the increase in gr Collectively was 464 million if you look at the budget brief for just our overall department So some of these things that might be good ideas It's not that the desi the desi would have incorporated those items into the core It was into the formula was something else additional, right? This was a separate line item for a specific purpose. Thank you You Page 234 is the federal grant project extended impact this grant is for training for principals to help bridge the gap between interruptions in student learning and re-establishing the rhythm and of school And it magnifies the critical role of quality educational experiences for school leaders Looks like this was new in FY 23 and you lapsed all of it and You know lapsed pretty significant amount last year in FY 24 two and a half million dollars of the of the three point Three and then looks like we've got two hundred and three thousand dollars actual year to date Expenditures, which actually that's a good time as any and I've started to notice this You don't happen to know why so like on 236 and this is just more general in nature But it works here as an example look at 236 and on FY 25 current as of 2 3 25 right and we've got the appropriation authority three million three hundred sixteen thousand three eighty you go down To actual expenditures, of course for FY 24 FY 23 there, you know, those fiscal years are done. They're closed We know what's going on there. We've got the actuals for 25 it says, you know in forward slash a Which you know, maybe I need to pull out the dictionary. That's not applicable or not available I think is what I remember that but then I go to and it was very confusing I finally, you know found on 239 here. You look at FY 25 actual There's two hundred three thousand four hundred seventeen dollars. So it's like evidently it is applicable Do you know why that shows up like that? That would be a movers Okay thing to be worked out in the future and you're not the movers person needless to say All right, I'll add that one to my list for Budget and planning maybe they can explain that one to me It's as I said seems applicable. So, okay. Well, let's just go back to this item specifically What say you about the laps and do we think we finally got this figured out and we're going to spend all this in the Future or is the federal award actually less than the 3.3 million or what? What are what are we thinking on this one? So this was a three or four year federal grant that allowed for carryover into future years and we have a Possible two-year extension Still on this grant Could you provide us a copy of that federal grant or that award or that information? We can take a look at that and that suffice for now. So appreciate that. Thank you Okay, that takes us to page 240 then Which is a new decision item for the Missouri leadership development system the retention rate for principals who participate in the Missouri leadership development system are nearly 25% better than those Principals who do not engage in this powerful learning experience through regular interaction with over half of Missouri schools Principals in the state impacting thousands of teachers and hundreds of thousands of students This MLDS breathes life into the statement that effective leadership can be learned The department requested 1.9 million. The governor did not recommend this item Representative Steinhoff you may proceed Thank you I was really disappointed to see this and the next item not being funded because from my understanding These two programs were having a lot of success and in the big talk about you know How much money is being spent in this budget? These are kind of smaller items that really have a direct impact in the quality of instruction going on in our classrooms And you know, we know that statistically a high quality teacher in the classroom is the biggest indicator of student success And we know there's a strong correlation between having a strong principal and keeping high quality teachers in the classroom I I'm wondering this is kind of why I asked about the Excellence in Education Fund earlier I'm wondering if you could look into whether it's at all possible to use that funding to maybe support these programs and at the same time I wondered What if you don't have any funding for this do these programs die or do you have a plan to still keep them going? Yeah, we we've got quite a challenge on our hands and basically MLDS existed before We had relief funds to expand the reach and and do a lot of additional Capacity building for both this one and the teacher development system. And so we we do find that the programs have been effective with Retention rates of teachers and of principals and we do we do have some Expert external reviews that have provided data and done some analysis on this. So I think there's some some real value there But again, it's tough just there's a lot of choices that have to be made. We'll explore whether or not You know the revolving fund has the ability to do that But I suspect it would if we did it would be for a short period of time. So we're the MLDS like I say did exist before we expanded it to the capacity it is now But it would have to go back to a much smaller footprint We've got some additional some other federal funds that can be applied to it and have been in the past But not enough to make it the scale that it is right now and did that program in existence now Did the districts have to pay any money to participate in the program? They do not okay. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair Representative Chapel you may proceed. I Don't know if you all have this data or not. So I'm just gonna ask but I know nationally based upon the Department of Education For the last 20 years or so the percentage of teachers increased across the country is roughly 8% and The number of principals and vice principals assistant principals over that same period of times increased by roughly 37 percent and the number of above school building administrative staff over the same period is increased by 88 percent and I'm I'm wondering what the state of Missouri's numbers look like teachers In school administration building administration and above the building administration Can we get anything like that for the last decade or two? We should be able to all right. Thank you Okay page 243 is the new decision item for the Missouri teacher development system This was requested by the department for 1.6 million dollars and is a framework for competency-based learning for teachers at all career levels the completion of the MTDS programming has the ability to increase the recruitment and the retention of quality teachers in an impactful way MTDS Teacher retention numbers are higher than both state and national averages ranging from 93 to 100 percent This new decision item would provide the opportunity to continue the development and expansion of the first statewide system of Professional learning and support for Missouri's teachers. This did not get funded by recommended by the governor Representative Lewis you may proceed with an inquiry. I think empty MTDS Are these monies going to the RP DCS? I'm sorry to throw around a bunch of acronyms, but it is correct, right? So are these going into some of those? those math Was What do we call them? Anyway, the people sit over the other math teachers a shoulder and help them with that or is this a different program? This is a different program. So this is just in general RP RP DCS Development of teachers in general not necessarily to a specific curricular area. That's correct This is for early career teachers to get all those supports on basically how to do all the things that aren't just your core curriculum necessarily all the things you need to do to manage your classroom and this might be something more for the for the Commission or whatever, but I Mean, you know, you see the M LDS see the MTDS, right? We know that You know, neither of them they were funded in the governor's recommendation The teacher scholarships aren't funded in the governor's record. Actually, it's not the increase If you had your choice if the Commissioner had her choice Where would you put the money what would be the thing that you'd want to do? I guess I know she doesn't want to talk. She's getting tired sitting there But would would but the Commissioner want to come up and give us a an answer. I Don't mean to make you talk a bunch do it do it in one minuteanything that you have some research behind that's showing that you're having recruitment retention success either a building level or teacher is going to be a quality program so I always want to invest something I've got some research took some relief dollars and did some good research around this I'd love to see it funded thank you appreciate it sorry to make you come up there I do think that there's some good things that are happening in those areas and you know it looks like a lot of money but when you start figuring out per teacher or per you know administrator it doesn't work out to be a lot of money so I mean there are you know what 70,000 80 you know between 70 and 80 thousand teachers of those we know that in the K through or the K in the first through first through fifth year is where they have the most dropout and if we can keep two or three percent more of those that's a really a bargain compared to losing them to some other occupation and especially if we can make them a better better teacher all at the same time thank you I think she answered my question next is the Office of Adult Learning and Rehabilitation Services the core for voc rehab is on page 246 governor recommendation for 54.5 million this is to provide access to services and supports for individuals with disabilities to be successful in their employment goals do you know that if the if the new minimum wage requirements is that driving any challenges related to employment or is it too early to say have you heard anything about that and it's relates to this population you doesn't appear to be a direct correlation okay I'll ask next year and have a little bit more experience and unless you just know it offhand I don't I just am curious on 246 in the in the core description under vocational rehabilitation services assistive technology is mentioned could you provide a list of what that means or like all the various assistive technologies I'm just you know generally curious I don't need it now and just be curious on the follow-up with some more detail as to what what exactly that entails so appreciate that and I think we can continue page 253 is the new decision item for vocation vocational rehab for 15.5 million dollars this had expenditures of 65.5 million in fiscal year 24 which was because of a 24% increase in new applicants our 25 appropriation is 54.5 million so we're already short on what it was from compared to last year and I would draw your attention to the documents on page 256 and 257 where we project out the number of individuals served and they expect a dollar amount that may be needed to serve these individuals this is also a supplemental request for us representative chaplain you may have an inquiry you may proceed Thank You mr. chair so we got a core reduction on 246 and then a new decision item of exact you'll exactly the same amount of money for the core reduction I mean to the dollar so why the core reduction if we need it on the very next tab it's just one of those happy coincidences that it came out to the dollar I guess no if you'll actually look at 256 the actual amount of capacity we think we'll need is the 15 million 674 okay maybe I'm it's entirely possible I'm missing something we've been here a while on 246 we're asking for 54 million five hundred eighty six thousand four hundred eighty two dollars which is exactly 15 million five hundred thirty two thousand one hundred eighty three less than what was appropriated last year so it's a core reduction of that amount and then the very next page we have an NDI of exactly the same amount but now you're telling me that's three hundred thousand dollars too little when we updated for the most recent projections yes so why the core reduction is my question that was as a result of the average of the lapses in the last three years prior to that so so we're we're taking it laps into account on this one if you look at page 248 uh-huh and see how we spent 53 million in 22 and 54 million in 23 and you would find a 21 number very similar to that uh-huh that average lapse was what resulted in the core reduction that we have starting with fiscal year 25 at the 54.5 million but you can also see there how we ended the fiscal year 24 expenditures at sixty five point five million and then are continuing to see growth in the number of eligibles and that's on page 256 mm-hmm that we're continuing to see the projected number of eligibles increase making us think that we do indeed need that core funding back again hey don't get me wrong I'm always thrilled to see departments have a core reduction and I applaud you for taking all that into consideration it's just interesting that it's exactly the same amount on the NDI and then it's not enough based on your estimates going forward and I just I just trying to I'm trying to map this one out I think in this particular case we felt like we needed the additional capacity and we felt like we needed to prove the prior number to make sure that we really weren't asking more than we thought we really needed well I'm all in favor of that thank you page 258 is the core for the disability determinations sixteen point eight million dollars recommended by the governor to make determinations of disability for Missourians Missourians filing for Social Security disability benefits page 265 is a new decision item requesting additional funding for the disability determinations for three point four three point three million dollars if you'll look back at 260 you'll see that in fiscal year 24 we were running expenditures of 18 almost 18.9 million and had core going into 25 of 16.8 million we also took into consideration the growth that we've been experiencing there and you can see that on page 268 to determine how much we believe this shortfall may be as we finish 25 and then also for 26 so this is a supplemental and a new decision item for this program is the spending on this generally even throughout the year is this one of those that can it can hit all in June or what is the spend generally on this item can you speak to that I'll get confirmation but it would seem to be fairly stable throughout the course of the year okay so you you have a supplemental item for this and I don't remember what that is offhand same amount exactly that you need for a full year no the supplemental would be to avoid running short on the year in total for the current fiscal year and we're projecting that amount forward so we won't rest in dollars is the same right but we the we wouldn't run out of the actual capacity until later in the fiscal year but we think the annualized total would be comparable yeah because you have 16.8 and authority and I'm just is that right does that sound right I'm looking at that correctly and we spent 18.8 in last fiscal year so we've got to make up at least that much and we anticipate some additional increase in cost because I'm just looking here on the on 264 it looks like actuals is three and a half million through and on E&E and 5.1 on PSD for 8.7 so you know I mean that's that gets you pretty close to 16 for a full year's worth unless it's just all gonna hit here at the end or something which is why I asked that question do you have a is there any kind of federal award documentation that we could see that would support or is it more open-ended and it's just however many you know how many people walk through the door in a given year and it's it's just that's just it is what it is yeah there's a certain amount of variability that's going to be in in a program such as this so I don't know that it's a very it's really obvious one the other thing I would make a mention about this program like many of our other federal programs is the fact that our grant years are different than our state fiscal years and so we end up with this overlap of multiple federal fiscal years with our current state fiscal year and so that leads to some variability as well okayThank you for that explanation. Next is page 269, which is the core for the independent living centers for $5.5 million for the 22 centers throughout the state. Page 277 is a new decision item for $1.2 million recommended by the governor. This would be an increase of federal funds being distributed to the ILCs for direct consumer services, and these funds would be distributed evenly between the 22 centers. That takes us to book three, which is for the Office of College and Career Readiness, beginning on page 279. Before we get into the book, Representative Owen, you have a question, Representative Owen, you may proceed. I'm just struggling why we have voc rehab in DESE and not in social services. I'm gonna have Chris Claus come up and share a little bit of the history of that. Well, I don't wanna take a long time, I mean, is there not a quick answer? If there isn't, then just get back with me, because I don't want everybody else to have to go through a whole litany of history and all that, but just at some time, if you would, just get with me, I'm just curious why. They'll be happy to follow up with you, Representative, I'm confident. We've had this explanation in years past, and I don't feel that I've recollected sufficient to give it to you now. Just some time later, get back with me, thank you. Absolutely. I know they have one. So book three. Book three, page 279, is the Corps for Patriotic Education Governor Recommendation for $500,000 for a Patriotic and Civic Education Program to prepare teachers to teach the principles of American civics and patriotism. Page 280. I'm sorry, Representative Christensen, you have something on this? You may proceed. Yes, do we know what vendor we're using for this? My understanding is these are teacher-developed lesson plans, model lesson developments that have been shared, and then there are trainings that happen through our regional professional development centers. Would you be able to provide the committee some of the regional planning over this course? If you have it? Regional planning? You're talking about you do regional meetings over this? They're training through the regional professional development centers. If you have any documents towards that, that'd be great, thank you so much. Okay. Page 284 is the Corps, I'm sorry. Representative Murray, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Yeah, just a quick inquiry. In regards to what Representative Mazey was referring to on 280, not just necessarily the regional development, but if you could share any type of curriculum around what's covered in those courses, that could be helpful. Thank you. Page 284 is the Corps for Care to Learn for $2.5 million, recommended by the governor. This is a not-for-profit organization that focuses on health, hunger, and hygiene to meet students' immediate needs so every student can be successful in the school. In fiscal year 24, they partnered with 46 school districts and helped 135,609 students. 135,609 students. Page 289 is the Corps for the K-3 Reading Assessment Program Governor recommendation, $400,000, and this is to identify students in kindergartens through grades three that are at risk for dyslexia and related disorders. Page 294 is the Corps for the Evidence-Based Reading Program Governor recommendation for $25 million. This is to reimburse school districts and charters for efforts to improve reading literacy. This fund is used for the letters program that Deputy Commissioner Kelly-Jones referenced earlier for kindergarten through fifth grade educators, reading material, early literacy resources for families. Can you explain your lapse here? And again, newer program, 23 first year, no expenditures, $4 million in 25. We've had $25 million in authority every single year. We're at $3.1 million in expenditures as of 2-3 in fiscal year 25. So more, but wouldn't appear that it's gonna get anywhere close to 25, so what's the real need here? So the $25 million was a one-time fund placement, and so we're spending that over a number of years, and the rest of the story, so to speak, is that we were using a lot of our ESSER dollars, our state 10% set-aside dollars to support reading initiatives, and so we've had some overlap to where we wanted to spend those ESSER dollars first, and we've been doing that. And so now that those are all been expired, the expenditures within this fund will pick up. So it's one time, and we've effectively been reappropriating? Correct. So you can pare it down to at least $19 million, or whatever it is, whatever the math is, and it isn't gonna break anything. If you've had expenditures, subtract 25, and that wouldn't hurt anybody. That's correct. Okay. Now, at some point, there might be a request to backfill this fund at some point, but at this point in time, that wouldn't be necessary. All right, because this isn't, you can intend to do this in perpetuity, or something like that, in like a, or once we get everybody trained, we don't have to train them again, or how's this? Well, some of the activities in here are created within the statute itself. So that Senate Bill 681 had a lot of these different activities that are described, that we're doing the work around with this money. There's always gonna be some new churn of teachers now. Right. And so there'll be some need ongoing, but maybe not once we get past a critical point. It may lessen. Okay, thank you. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. What's the feedback, thank you, Mr. Chair, what's the feedback from the actual educators in the schools on the efficacy of this program? It's one of the more rigorous programs that we've been involved in, and I think most of the feedback has been exceptional in terms of teachers who've gone through teacher prep, and know a lot about education in total, never understood the true science behind reading, and how that works in the mind, so to speak, if you will. It's really about understanding the whole science behind the reading process, and learning how to read process. I think it's a well-researched effort, if you will, and it's been very successful in many other states. And is this the same program wherein students at kindergarten, first grade are tested on a computer screen to see how far advanced they are, and if they don't meet, is this the same thing as that? There is reading assessment within the Senate Bill 681 provisions, but it's not necessarily tied to just this. This is more about understanding how to teach reading, and how to diagnose issues within different aspects of reading. So this is purely the educator side, not the student side? Correct. Perfect, thank you. Page 300 is the core for Esteem Village. This was core reduced to zero, as this was one-time funding. Page 305 is the core for Tutoring and Education Enrichment, the Du Bois Center, and this was also core reduced to zero, due to being a one-time. Page 310 and 315 go together. 310 is the transfer funding for the STEM Career Awareness Program, $370,000. Then 315 is the actual program dollars for this program, which is for grades six through eight. It's an online curriculum with interactive exercises in problem solving and thinking critically. Page 320 is the administration for the Computer Science Education Program that we'll talk about on the next tab. This is for one staff person. Page 325 and page 330 also go together. 325 is the transfer into the Computer Science Education Program for $450,000 to prepare teachers for teaching computer science, if they are teachers with very little background in that area. Page 330 is the actual program dollars related to the Computer Science Education Program. Page 336 is the core for the Mental Health Coordinator. This is for one FTE to work with schools to provide technical assistance for the school's social workers. Page 341 is the core for the Early Literacy Program, $455,000 recommended by the governor targeting third grade reading in academically struggling school districts. Representative Christensen, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, sorry to interrupt you mid-air. Okay, so who is the vendor of the Early Literacy Program? It has been in the past, Literacy Lab, but they have determined not to continue on with this service, so we're in the RFP mode to see if there's another vendor that can do something similar. So with Literacy Lab, did they give you like a receipt kind of showing like where the money is going? So like how many kids are actually being served, or is this being used for more of their admin fees? I don't have that at my fingertips. No, that's okay. We can identify that. But you can identify, you think? We should be able to provide some information. Okay, cool, thank you. Now, keep in mind, there wouldn't be activity for this year, it'd be from a prior year. Yep, correct, yep, thank you. Representative Steinhauf, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Yes, thank you. Is the lapse due to not enough districts participating?Somebody's nodding their head in the back maybe they want to come forward you have something maybe not and you have anything to offer on this and the follow-up to would be how do we get more districts to participate. Please come forward and I don't know if you have a question to the prior inquiry it's kind of relating on this topic feel free to to offer that as well but this is representative Seinhoff's inquiry so her discretion okay hi thank you my name is Heather Knight coordinator of literacy to the initial question yes we do have data that shows the number of students that have been impacted and who were worked with through the literacy lab the literacy lab no longer provides those services and so we've had to begin the process of the request for proposal to identify a new vendor and your question again I'm sorry it was about the lapse I want to say it was the last couple years we've seen a lapse and wondered if it was like can we try to get more districts possibly to participate yes and originally when that literacy lab began to kind of come down on those expenses is because they were losing tutors and so the number of tutors and teachers that were out there supporting in school districts was just declining and so they were just losing that and so that was the funding was thank you thanks mr. chair do you have anything do you need a follow-up version of Christensen or that answer your question okay just when they can get proceed oh sorry just when he's got I think gonna give me the numbers of like what they're using for AG admin fees like previously and how many kids okay represent Lewis you have something on this go ahead more of a global question on literacy we have a 25 million dollar fund that we just talked about with you know teaching the science of reading and you know what we spent down I don't know if it's for you for you for whoever but the you know we spent down about five million that I know we were expending federal dollars was when that money was dropped into that fund was that GR when we dropped it in so ultimately is GR even though it's dropped in this other fund so we've got this money there that's used for the science of reading partly put there because of Senate bill 681 but not all those monies necessarily have to be encumbered by Senate bill 681 could some of those I mean this is a $450,000 line item that we've been using about half of it and now literacy labs done can we not roll these into one represent Lewis this question came up last year the year before and at that time we pulled together a one-pager that had all the different literacy line we can provide that yet again I think the challenge for us and I don't I think the idea is the right idea I think for us a lot of these little individual line items were there for a reason somebody got it added to the budget in the past and and that's continued to move forward in that regard we're we are not opposed to consolidating our literacy efforts into a single line item I will tell you that the evidence based reading the 25 million there are some prescriptive language about it being grants to districts for certain activities and so forth so it's not necessarily that we could then go do something with a vendor outside of that because of the language we'd have to work look at the language to see if that's plausible as well I remember that having that conversation I don't know if it was last year the year before the year before that or the year before that seems like we've had this conversation more than one time but maybe it's just not a good idea thank you thank you for your testimony thank you I think we can continue now okay I believe we are on page 346 career technical education maintenance and repair this is a core of 5.5 million dollars for repair renovation and construction it requires a 50-50 match with this CTE Center is this new maintenance and repair every year that we're kind of releasing going or this is so we did it at some point and started it and we're just at some point we'll be done with this I don't know if done is the right word we're talking 5.5 million and when we survey our area career centers they can get into hundreds of millions of future needs well sure but if we do something like I do something in 19 I'm gonna you know build a capital building a million dollars and we spend a hundred thousand we'll reappropriate the next year for 900 and eventually we build the building and then we're done so that's kind of what I'm getting at is this like a new five and a half million every year to do M&R okay so it's ongoing in that sense so last year we did we did well we didn't quite expend five and a half million and I know we got close so I won't even ask about that but that this is a new five and a half million and it won't be the same projects as last year those got expended and were able to do it in one year and that's okay I understand thank you it looks like we spent all but the reserve couldn't call the governor and get anyway it's fine I figured that's what it was I didn't see it noted yep that's that's what it is okay very good we can continue page 351 is a new decision item for career centers recommended by the governor for 20 million dollars this is to support the 34 career and technical centers statewide 15 million of this is one-time funding for capital improvements and equipment and five million is ongoing for operations do you have a list or could you provide a list of and I'm talking across the whole budget so I know I feel like in House Bill 20 there were some things for career and technical centers that you know maybe over the last three years because this is a little different little unique but I feel like this is there's been some other lines that have supported career and technical centers over the last few years and just curious if we keep a list of what those are and if any of those are ongoing as well or if they were just one-time or something of that nature I can't tell you that within the ARPA dollars there were 20 million allocated for similar types of projects and those were spread over a couple of years this would be an annual you know start new each year in this case it's one time so it's just going to be a one-time approach well 15 of it is but five of it five of its ongoing that's career or it is recommended as such so thank you representative Steinhoff you may proceed thank you can you was this requested last year and didn't make it through the budget was there a 10 million for career centers okay I recall all right thank you page 353 is the core for the boot hill tech training center this was 1.1 million dollars in one-time funds which has been core reduced to zero page 358 is the core for the career education distribution this is 28 million dollars this is Perkins funding by 481 LEAs received this funding for their career technical education programs representative Davidson you recognize for an inquiry thank you and I'm sorry I'm gonna go back just a little on 352 when we're looking at the breakup for that 20 million dollar request and five millions for ongoing expenses I'm wondering what the distinction would be from that five million and then the the broader office of college and career readiness core foundation in our first book for 52 million what why would the why would an ongoing expense for operations not not be in that line item as opposed to this one well I think this is the NDI ultimately it probably fits to be added to that 52 million dollar core amount but as a NDI request they were they were lumped together as a 20 million dollar proposal so placement may be a more appropriate there I think we're open to that if the committee believes that's the case okay okay I appreciate it thank you okay I think we are on we just covered Perkins and now we're on page 333 or excuse me 363 I'm getting dyslexia as the as the evening wears on here this is a request for 2.7 million dollars in additional federal fundings for the Perkins federal grant on page 366 we line out what those awards have been in the past and the growth amount that we are seeing on average of 2.6 million and that's what we use to base the this request for this increase for should the it's almost exclusively program distribution but there is a hundred and one thousand of E&E would that be better does that fit here should that be in the admin line and I guess is the is E&E allowable under this federal federal grant or award I think we'll have to check on that okay we will await an answer on that and we will continue for now okay page 367 is the core for the registered youth apprenticeship program governor recommendation for six hundred and eleven thousand dollars this benefits students ages 16 to 21 they work with five different our PDC's and the our PDC's help the youth complete the US Department of Labor application find businesses and do the necessary training to get them into these apprenticeship programs page 372 is the core for the skills eval program this was 1.3 million dollars it's been core reduced by the governor to zero this isThat's done with the University of Oregon. Page 378 is for career advising. Governor recommended $2.5 million for career advising in rural Missouri high schools, serving nearly 26,000 students, 82% on track for securing a career that provides a living wage versus 42% statewide that do not receive these services. Page 383 is the new decision item recommended by the governor for $1 million to address 50 out of 75 of the schools that are on the wait list for career advising services. Representative Boggs, do you recognize for an inquiry? Yes, so I've kind of been watching these programs a little bit. So the program has been operational in rural Missouri for high schools for three years, so what was the path that we paid for that versus this here? Are we taking something and just expanding it in multiple numbers? So a little bit of history, there was a matching grant program that was funded with some relief funds early on when they became available, but I believe last year is the first year that we made it more stable in funding with ongoing funding. My recollection is that there was a $3.5 million appropriation and it was vetoed down by a million and this is putting that amount back in. Okay, so that kind of makes sense. So I don't really see any FTEs or anything, unless I've missed it. So how is this program and this dollar work? So it's a grant program where we award grants to the individual qualifying school districts and they actually hire the person and it's a matching grant where we don't pay the full amount, we pay a portion of what the counselor's amount would be. Okay, I think I understand. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representative Steinhoff, you're recognized for an inquiry. Thank you. Is this limited to rural schools or is it expanding beyond? I think there's mostly rural schools. You see some that get closer to larger metro areas, but mostly they're of a rural nature. That's kind of the target audience for this program. Okay, thank you. Representative Martin, you may proceed. Yeah, for inquiry. Last week I think it was national or state counselor day or something, I had a couple of counselors from my district come by and talk to me about just the need for more counselors in schools in this area. So this doesn't go towards any salary support or things like that, are it possible where a school can hire, they get the grant, and then they have to pick up the rest of the salary year two, three, and four? It would cover a portion of their salaries, though. Okay. Yes. Okay. It may possibly help in that area. Correct. Okay. Okay, I think we're on page 385, which is the dyslexia training program. This is for $600,000 recommended by the governor to help teachers in identifying the signs and symptoms of dyslexia, training them to recognize that. Page 390 is a new decision item for literacy coaches requested by the department for $5.3 million. This provides Missouri teachers and administrators access to highly trained literacy experts who provide evidence-based reading instruction and assessment training. The literacy coaches are certified in the letters program, and they've currently provided training to 8,478 educators and anticipate reaching another 6,309 educators in the 25-26 school year. Representative Boggs, you are again recognized for an inquiry. Yes, sorry. You'd think I just woke up. So I'm not seeing it's recommended by the governor? That's correct. That is not. Okay. So it's a new decision item that is not recommended by them. I misheard. Sorry. And I would put this in the same category as MLDS and MTDS we talked about earlier. This is closely aligned to the work we do. It's just a matter of can you figure out a way to find the funding to make it happen. So difficult choices. Representative Steinhoff, you're recognized for an inquiry. Thank you. I just wanted to make a comment. I appreciate the information that you gave us in the budget, and I encourage budget members to really look at the impacts that reading has had in Mississippi and Arkansas. I know Governor Sanders is really addressing that, and they're seeing huge gains and that it's founded in that science of reading that you talked about earlier, and I wish our state was moving in this direction as well. Thank you. You have a page number, Representative, if somebody wanted to look at what you were identified? Thank you, yes. Page 391. Thank you. Next is the new decision item on page 393, 393 and 395 both go together. These are the elementary literacy program that was included in Senate Bill 727. The language said to start this with $5 million. This was for a home reading program for kindergarten through fifth graders. The books were then to be mailed to the home. The LEAs were to match 50-50, and there was a limit on the amount that could be spent per student per year. This was not recommended by the governor. Page 398 is the core for the comprehensive school health program for $100,000, recommended by the governor. These are grants from the CDC to monitor youth risk behaviors and school practices. Page 404 is the core for the Missouri Healthy Schools program for $283,000. This was initially a five-year grant. We've gotten a second five-year grant, and this is to reduce the access to unhealthy foods, improve the amount of physical activity that students receive, and bolster the care coordination for students with chronic conditions before, during, and after the school day. Page 410 is a new decision item for the Mo Healthy Schools program for $65,000. The annual amount of this grant is $390,000, and our core is $283,000, so we don't have enough authority to fully expend the grant each year. Page 413 is the core for the Missouri Project AWARE, governor recommendation of $1.7 million. This is a grant that we partner with the Department of Mental Health and three LEAs, Kansas City, Kennett, and Riverview, to reduce youth violence. Page 418. Representative Christensen, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Yep, thank you. So, going back to page 413. Who is the vendor who facilitates this? We're administering that, we have a staff person that oversees the program. And then, okay, so then my next question is, so, are you tracking children's data, and then you're sending it back to the feds, is that, would that be correct, correct assumption? I want to make sure I'm on the same page as you. 413. 413. Okay. I don't, I'm not aware that there would be any individual student data that would be tracked and shared with anybody. There are some data tracked around the overall program activities, but I'm not aware of any student-level data. Okay, I just didn't know if we were, we're talking about like mental health and behavioral health issues, I didn't know if we were tracking it to kind of see kind of what the program's really doing. But, okay, that's nice to know. Thank you. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. First of all, let me apologize for yawning into a hot mic. I assure you it has everything to do with me not being able to sleep last night after the game's frustration, and nothing with what was being discussed at the moment, I apologize. That's a first for me, by the way. Is there a game, yeah. The lapse on this, so this is a new program in 22? On 4-14? Yes. Yes. And then in 23, you know, we had 1.7 again and we spent 3.95, and then in 24, 1.7 again and we spent 1.1. Thus far, it looks like we've spent about $7.50 of that 1.7 that we have for FY25. Do we anticipate filling this out? As I recall, this was a five-year grant that allows carryover from one year to the next and an extension to finish expending it. So is the expenditures therefore cumulative? Like the grant, it would be. So we've actually spent a million of this 1.7. But it's five years at 1.7. 1.7 per year? Okay, so it's eight and a half million dollars over five years. Are we, so back to my, so back, yeah, so we have a two-year extension. So it's another 3.4. So we're actually at 11.9. When we have an extension to spend, we don't get additional grant authority on those extended years. We just have additional time to spend out the grant authority we got and were allowed in previous years, but did not spend. So if we don't have...had done that. Thank You Mr. Chair. Okay we got several inquiries lined up here I will just kind of level set so the make sure I've got it straight we had 165 million dollars and well 165 million six hundred seventy four thousand two hundred twenty nine dollars to be exact FY 2024 appropriation authority that's on 719 you look at your core reduction for the federal dollars we used that was fifty nine million seven hundred eleven thousand four and sixty oh no excuse me it was forty nine million five hundred sixty one thousand one hundred twenty two dollars if I'm looking at it correctly on 726 and so you take the difference and you elapsed going back now to 719 seventy six million dollars and change seventy six million six hundred twenty three thousand nine hundred forty six so anyway close back of the envelope math around thirty million dollars that was available presumably to pay well actually I did all that math for no apparent reason because in in 24 those federal dollars they existed right we could have spent them they were there to spend so if we lap 76 million dollars in 24 that was all money that could have been made available to pay child care providers or did I get that wrong I thought there was some statement made as you know and we are making a reduction because we did put in federal dollars and now that's being core reduced there's no question about that but you want to speak to that the original spend plan for the child care relief funds was to include those funds and operational grants to the child care providers that was then switched to put the funds into direct subsidy payments but to your pointI'd have to look, I'd have to do a little more research on that. If you could, I'd appreciate that information just on where you guys are funding adult high schools. Representative Boggs, you may proceed with an inquiry. I appreciate what you guys do and sometimes your job is educating us in the process. In about, I'm just going to use some numbers that I just kind of threw together, so in about $34 million in roughly new decision items, but really no FTEs, so is this going to literature? Is this going to up somebody's pay? Because a lot of it's in training and it looks like it's like, some of it looks like it's teacher training to be counselors. Am I reading some of that correctly? Well, that's going to take me a minute to find, but so there's no FTEs, so where is the directive in these dollars? Are you speaking to teacher training programs? Yeah, yeah. So the delivery model there for a lot of our training programs that we have for school district staff of any type, whether it's teachers, administrators, or what have you, is through our regional professional development centers. So we contract with them. Most of them are housed through a university as kind of their base or their anchor, and then we contract with them. They're the ones that actually hire the staff that do the training, and that way we can have trainers in different regions of the state. Okay, I think you might, so a lot of this $34 million is a contract type deal. Okay. All right. That's what I, that was, I should have asked the question that direction, so thank you. Representative Steinhoff, you may proceed with an inquiry. Thank you. I want to follow up on the question about the workforce diploma. So am I understanding you right that you're not really sure what the motivation was behind the governor only accepting half of the recommendation? It had been $2 million for a couple of years, and then it went to four, but now it's back to two in the recommendation, so I'm not sure I could tell you the exact reason why. Okay. Well, I know that I had seen some data. It looks like it's a pretty expensive way for the state to get graduates, but I think back to the other reps' concern, I don't know how we go about in the other avenues just making sure that geographically everyone has access to being able to get that, so I look forward to that information as well. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening now. Perry Goral, Chief of Governmental Relations. The adult high schools are actually located in DSS's budget, where the workforce diploma is in our budget, so the adult high schools, I believe, are located in St. Louis, Columbia. There actually may be two of them in St. Louis region. There's a total of them, four right now, with expansion to occur in Kansas City. Representative Steinhoff, please. And what about that third avenue? So the workforce diploma? No, the AEL, adult education. Oh, the adult education. So that's actually located in the Office of College and Career Readiness. So that is a program that we oversee for the high-set testing and other means of providing opportunities for adults in the state of Missouri. And would that be accessible virtually? I think there may be opportunities to be done virtually, but many of those types of programs are located on college campuses, whether it be a community college or a four-year institution of individuals who are going back to try to receive their high-set or their otherwise called their GED. So the workforce, reducing workforce diploma hopefully will not reduce access to being able to get their diplomas. That is correct. There is opportunities through other means. Okay. Thank you. Representative Cabralo, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. And it may be for you, I'm sorry, but just for clarification. So the adult education, whatever we were just talking about, goes through DSS? That is correct. It's in their budget. Not just to be clear, you said AEL. That's in DESE's budget. That's in our budget. But the adult high schools, to clarify. That is correct. But adult high school is in DSS, and disability determination is in DESE. Do you want to give it to me now, because I think that's a long answer. I would like to know why. It's actually not that long, but it is an important. So do you want it now? If the committee so desires. Let's have it. We'll have the Chris Claus come up to explain it right quick. Well, you said it wasn't very long, and now you're walking away from the podium, so all right. Thank you. Just checking to see. Okay. Introduce yourself for the record. Chris Claus, Assistant Commissioner of the Office of Adult Learning and Rehabilitation Services, which does contain both the Vocational Rehabilitation and Disability Determinations Program. So the Disability Determinations Program adjudicates Social Security disability claims. That's what our DD counselors do all day, every day. That program historically has been tied, for good reason, to the Voc Rehab Program. And our Vocational Rehabilitation Program, of course, provides direct services to individual disabilities in the community to help them return to work. There's a lot of history that goes with the VR and the DD programs being so connected. I can tell you the benefits are, the nature of the work focuses on disability, its impact on employment, both for individuals who have applied for Social Security disability, and also for individuals on the VR side who are helping to support, get back into work, or get into work for the first time. So that's a very brief, I know, history, but ... Why is it in DESE? Oh, and why is it in DESE? Well, the benefits, I can tell you, of being in DESE are, on the Voc Rehab side, the model is very much a training and education model. So we work with individual disabilities that we're helping to either return to work or get into work for the first time. We're looking at how do we help them develop skills so that way they can get into employment of their choice. I can tell you about, somewhere around 50 percent of the individuals that we work with who come in to the Voc Rehab program for the first time are in high school when they start with us. So there's a very strong connection to our students with disabilities in our high schools engaging with us, which makes a lot of sense in a lot of ways because we can start with them when they're young and in school before they exit. We of course also work with adults who have experiences in their adult lives that require them to revisit a career pathway that maybe they can no longer continue because of disability. So. 1972 is when it first came about. Representative Cavalier, does that answer your question? Do you have any additional you'd like to follow up on? That makes a little bit of sense, so I appreciate it. Thank you. While we're on it, and I forget who had the question earlier, but is there any further on this before we move on? Representative Owen, do you have any additional questions? No, I still have questions. Okay, very good. Alright, so I think we can continue now, thank you. I believe we were on page 450, which is the core for the feminine hygiene products. This is being recommended by the Governor for $650,000, which puts the appropriation more along the lines with the request that we've received in the past for these services. Representative Martin, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Yeah, just more of a statement, and I'll be brief, I know I did. I was made aware of this in an article in the Columbia Missourian, and then actually when I was canvassing this last summer, ran into a constituent that was concerned about these types of spending by the government. Not only this, but then the computer program and the extra labor it takes to get this set up, things like that. So I'm just making a statement, I don't think this is a core function of government. Not that it's, it's obviously a need, I'm not saying it's not a need, I think it should be something taken care of locally, give these funds to literacy or things like that. Again, not a core function of government. I think these, you know, the expenses to set it up, and I think it's more the responsibility of parents. I think government's going so much that we're just taking away the responsibility of parents, and so I, you know, I just stated that I don't think this is needed. Representative Prowdy, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. More of a statement, Mr. Chair. Proceed. I was always raised that a child is worth ten of the mother, and some, unfortunately, some children don't have the best of parents, the most wealthy parents, but what these children are entitled to is a free and appropriate education. Putting the money towards literacy for some lower income or, you know, foster, whatever the child may be going through is not helpful if they're not there, or they have to be, you know, sent home with soiled clothes and things like that, so this is, I think taking care of children is indeed a function of government. This is a good use of this money as a school counselor who has went in her own purse to purchase these things, not that we're just, you know, bawling out of control, but this, I'm glad to see it's not zeroed out. Unfortunately, you know, tampons and pads have been politicized, but at the end of the day, what we're doing here is taking care of children. It's immaterial to me the caliber of parent they have. When they come to my classroom, they are mine, and I'm happy to use my tax dollars to ensure that young girls, despite what type of home environment they go through, our Missouri children and our Missouri girls are able to attend school comfortably, cleanly, and sanitarily. Thank you. I do appreciate your note, and I do think one thing that's interesting, and I don't know if you have any additional comment on this, is that, and FY23 was the, and this is on 451 for anybody who wants to follow along on your notes.FY 23 was, of course, the first year of the funding program, but it says the department has lapsed funds because a large number of school districts did not submit a budget for the grant and request any reimbursement. And I think, you know, with that alone, you know, there's probably some aspersions that would come to the department. So you add an additional sentence. All school districts were made aware of the grant through several, not one, I don't even think two, several that's got to be three or more, communication methods. And I don't, I was here, but forgive me, I don't remember when this went in the conversation, but I have to imagine it was something to the effect of this is necessary and the districts they just don't have the money or they'd already done them, maybe some of them have done it. If they just had the money they would, you know, and it appears that that's evidently not even the case because we're just, and I go back to, you know, whatever the reserve is, 30%. I mean, I think they had the money all along. Obviously, you know, if it was a priority, this isn't, I mean, this is a 650, well, it's gonna be 650, a million for the whole state, six million people. What could it be per district? Not that much. So we're gonna pay for it all, but yet there's a large number of school districts that said, yeah, we just, you know, even if you give us the money, we just, we're not interested, no thanks. I guess, I mean, what else am I to make of this? Well, first of all, I don't, it was not something the department requested initially, but we do feel like it's filling some need for somebody, obviously, but some districts already have a mechanism in place, I'm sure, that would help take care of those kind of needs without relying on some state support to do that. So that's my, that's my intuition speaking. And you think that applies to a large number of school districts, that that would be, so there, so a lot, or to use your language, a large number of school districts were already doing this, I guess, is what you think maybe is likely to happen. That could be the case, and also some of our smaller districts, their allocation on a million-wide, a million-dollar statewide grant would be so small, they may not think it's worth the administrative time to pursue the funds. And so they may be just not, not doing it at all. Okay, very good. We're on to round two now, Representative Brown, you may proceed. Thank you. So as a person who has purchased these items out of my own, out of my own purse, which, it's not a program, it's just, you know, I purchased it, can I ask for this money? Can I personally, as, you know, Dr. Rachel Prouty's school counselor, can I apply to DESE to get reimbursed? I get that the school districts weren't doing it, and the school districts, the district, at the district level certainly didn't tell the teachers who were in those classrooms or in these offices that there's some kind of reimbursement, because I'm sure they would have insisted that they participate, but because the school district, district didn't, I'm happy to use my, my reach to tell the teachers who do purchase these things that they can get reimbursed if individual teachers and individuals who purchase these items, if their school isn't participating, to get reimbursement. So is there something that teachers can do personally to get reimbursed for these funds? We don't have a mechanism in place for individual teachers for this particular program. We, from a practical standpoint, for us to administer this, we need to work through the districts. It's just, just, but you're picking up what I'm putting down. I am. Yeah, so I can't personally be reimbursed, but as long as the child has the items she needs, I don't think it really, you know, I get, I get where we're going with this, and I'm certainly not trying to say that teachers cover the majority of the expense, but I mean, it would sure be helpful if we could petition our government to get reimbursed for the funds. We spend out the kindness of our heart for these children. Thank you. Continue, please. Oh, I'm sorry, how could I forget, Representative Owen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can, I can tell you where 46 of these, why 46 of these districts did not request this, and that's because they're working through a group called Care to Learn, which we just discussed earlier, some funding. They're working in Southwest Missouri and South Central Missouri with school districts. They make the communities, though, also raise money, too, and so they offset some of the costs. They get it in bulk, and it discounts, and they do so much more clothes, everything, but there might be other places around the state that are doing the same type thing cooperatively, but that's at least takes care of 46 of the school districts why they're not, why they're not requesting it. I guess we're not quite ready to move along. Representative Douglas, you may proceed, and then we'll go to Representative Cupps. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you all for taking the time to take our inquiry. As I was reading, it said that the program was being accessed by the school nurses. If the school nurses, or there's not a school nurse, or they're on some type of part-time level, can someone else in the district apply for this, like your McKinney-Mentor Homes liaison, or someone that's over your student support services? Yes, the superintendent of the district administration can identify anybody to be the person that would be the grant manager, so to speak. Okay, excellent, thank you. Representative Cupps, you may proceed. Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to comment. I think it's clear that Representative Martin, although I have the utmost respect for him, has never been a 22-year-old male teacher in a public school system, because if you've ever had that awkward situation exist in your classroom, you might say that this, I don't care how much of it were lapsed, and I, as to Representative Prouty's point, if we don't have a clean and comfortable place where students can go and learn without the risk of embarrassment, it's like, what is the point of public school unless that scenario environment, for lack of a better term, exists? And so sometimes I think we get caught up on some of this stuff, but if you look at the grand scheme of the amount of money we spend, you want me to find waste in the average public school system? I don't necessarily think maybe this is the place we need to be looking. So just remember, in some of this stuff, look at it from the eyes of the actual teachers, we talk about educators, look at it at the eyes, we talk about teacher attention, how would I think about this if I was a fresh-out-of-college 22-year-old educator, what would I think about it then? So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Page 455. Page 455 is a new decision item for the STAR Academy, recommended by the governor for $1 million. This is a turnkey intervention program for middle school students that gives them a hands-on opportunity at STEM curriculum. What school district would this go to? We would have to do some type of application process and identify some prioritization. We have not established that yet at this point. All right, thank you. That takes us to book four, which is halfway through, yes. And this is the Office of Quality Schools. The first core is on page 457. This is competency-based education. This was another one of the programs established by Senate Bill 681. It was originally funded with a $2 million transfer. We have used the funds from there and finished out the grants, and so there's no longer any dollars here, and we are recommending that this be reduced to zero. Page 462 is the core for the Missouri Scholars and Fine Arts Academy. This is governor recommendation of $850,000. It covers a three-week Scholars Academy at MU and a two-week Fine Arts Academy at MSU for Missouri's academically gifted student. At this point, there's no fees for these students in fiscal year 25. Page 467 is the core for the Recovery High School. This was one-time funding of $500,000, core reduced to zero. The application deadline for this has been extended to March 1st, and we have two or three school districts that are considering making an application for this. Representative Black, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Looks to me like there was money for this in FY 24 as well. And no one applied. That was one-timed and nobody applied, and it was one-timed again. In 24, it was limited to a certain geographical area, and this year it's more broader, so we have this kind of a statewide opportunity this year. Yeah, that was my recollection that, in fact, maybe in 24 it was limited to maybe one school or something, very, very small. I believe it described one school district in the appropriation language. And we fixed that, and we still don't have many takers. We have two or three, if not four, districts that are considering making an application for these startup funds, and they did not, they have not indicated for sure that they're going to yet. Starting one of these high schools is a logistical undertaking, and so they're being very thoughtful about whether or not they want to proceed with that, and I think there's a good chance we'll have one or two by the March 1st deadline that want to pursue the path. And that's this fiscal year, and so, I mean, how much money can we get out the door? This would be next fiscal year. Well, it's zeroed. Right. For this fiscal year, it's really just seed money for some initial work to start the startup process. It would take much more than the funds we have here to start one of these schools. They're going to have some local district commitment that they're going to need to put into this to make it work. So some school district this year mightask for whatever little money they could get the rest of this fiscal year and then it's dried up and then if we wanted to I guess it's some future year or something a sup or something we could ask for some money if it looked like it was somebody was really interested in doing this. That and I think part of what these recovery high schools one of their elements is some therapies that you know we wouldn't necessarily have the capacity to but I believe there are some funds within the Department of Mental Health that would help as well they actually I think have more funds that would be available to support some of the therapy work that would need to happen within this setting so this is for us it's really just ours is more of the seed money to kind of get the setup of the startup just to do the planning the planning mode do the research it takes to do it and do it right. Do you know if the other department's money has got wrecked for 26? I do not. Thank you. Page 472. I can't add it I believe it's opioid settlement money that they would be using. Yeah and it looks like that might be available for this too. Thanks. Page 472 is the core for the critical needs school safety training program governor recommendation of 1 million dollars to establish safe school programs including active shooter response training. How many LEAs have received funding under this item? Going back to the looks like we really increased it in FY 23. Do you have numbers? So generally this Center for Education Safety does mass trainings or large-scale trainings where they provide trainings to a large number they typically don't issue individual grants out to school districts the money's not enough to go that far so they they do more of a overall training approach. So we have like one vendor that does this training statewide? It's spelled out within the language that it's for a school board organization in the state. Which is? School boards Association is the. I see. Aligned. And so they're they're doing this. And they operate the Center for Educational Safety. And they're just kind of offering trainings and you can come to it or maybe they come regionally and people can come to it and and you can come year after year if you want to or need to or send different people or. They've got a wide range of training opportunities. And is it the same trainings year after year? Are they developing new trainings that they're offering? They've expanded I believe pretty significantly over time but I couldn't itemize what they are without doing some further research. Okay all right that's all for me on this one. Thank you. Representative Chapel you may proceed. So based on that why did we lapse four hundred thousand and twenty four? Well that's a good question. We did not receive what was it be a timely invoice for the last part of the year. So I think that was a just a timing situation in terms of the invoicing for last fiscal year. So will that invoice thereby be paid in the current fiscal year then? We're gonna we're just gonna pay the no more than the current appropriation. So somebody's one year the other is missing out on four hundred thousand. That's correct. Okay and then you don't have to waive me off. There's there's you need to save that for other people on the committee Scott. Representative Cupps. I'm not seeing any expenditures at all for FY 25 so is this typically a later in the year program? Yes. Later in the fiscal year? Typically bill late in the fiscal year. Okay all right thank you. Page 477 is the core for the virtual education program governor recommendation for five hundred and eighty nine thousand dollars. These are online and virtual classes through the Missouri course access and virtual school program or mocap. There's pretty good laps on this item here year after year although to be fair less in fiscal year 2024 than the prior two years so do we think this is needed or we're not really sure what the you know who's gonna avail themselves of this program or could we potentially trim this trim this up a little bit or what's your sense on the appropriation level? It was trimmed for this year for based on that history and really that's right some of the 89 look at that some of that comes down to how many new courses are being developed and need to be reviewed things of that sort so there's a little bit of a what the providers uncertainty in terms of how much the needs going to be for reviewing those courses that are being provided. Okay and the mocap part on the notes it talks about some laps and being accounted for due to the vacancy created by the resignation of the mocap administrator. Is that a state position FTE? We do have an FTE to be our program overseer. I'll be honest with you though I don't know that it's charged to this appropriation. I was gonna say I just I didn't see any PS I was trying to figure out where the just didn't compute so that doesn't doesn't really totally translate for you either. You know it doesn't but I do know it at points in time we have had contracted counselor positions to support the program as well so maybe that's referring to those that have been vacant at different times. Okay all right thank you. Page 483 is the core for the performance-based assessment program governor recommendation of 18 million dollars. These are assessments required by state and federal law including end-of-year assessments in English language arts, science, social studies, and personal finance. These are also grade level tests in English language arts, math, and science. Page 489 is a new decision item for three million dollars to fully fund the assessments that are required in grades three through high school and this includes mathematics, English language arts, science, social studies, English proficiency for English learners, and the test for students with severe cognitive disabilities. Page 492 is the federal grant pathways to instructionally embedded assessments or PI. This is a four-year grant focusing on fifth grade math and apply and pilots of new assessments for that grade level and Representative Keps, you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you chairman. Can we go back to the NDI on 489? You got three million of which we were looking at seven hundred thousand being GR and looks like a couple million being federal and then it says that it's a federal mandate so is this is the entirety of this NDI to meet the federal mandate or? So the federal mandate is we test students in grades three through eight in math and in English. I believe there are some state testing requirements or that mirror that. I mean because are we not meeting the federal mandate currently? I guess is that what that's what I'm. So we run the risk of that at this point. I know we have lapses and we talked a little bit about this in the supplemental hearing and so we did put together in our response to that a two-year spend plan for both FY 25 and FY 26 so we can provide that to you. Yeah that that'd be great I'm just I'm trying to figure out if you know we we don't spend the 700,000 of GR on that is one are we at risk of losing those additional federal dollars and two are we are we not going to meet the federal mandate or do we feel like we're not adequately assessing currently? So I don't know that I can say that the 700,000 would cause us not to meet the federal mandate okay but the overall totals we believe are needed to meet all of our testing requirements. Yeah and you guys can get that to me offline I'd love to see what that breakdown looks like I'm just like I said I'm trying to make sense as to what why we need that over the 18 million that we've as someone that's been involved in administering that first times I just like to see the breakdown. Thank you. Representative Chappell you may proceed. Thank You Mr. Chair so this is another one of those I'm sorry numbers bother me I'm horrible with names that people would introduce themselves with Social Security numbers I'd never forget them so numbers kind of my thing which is I guess why I'm on this committee. So over the last three years as exemplified on 484 the appropriated amount has been $21,083,467 with an average lapse over those three years of a little over six million dollars per year and then for the current fiscal year the request was eighteen million twenty three thousand five oh five that's what what the appropriation was and the request from both the department and the governor for this line on 483 is that same eighteen million twenty three thousand five oh five is that all track and then theyear. The current year Ndi is for 3,059 or 3 million 59,962. Which of course is exactly to the dollar the difference between the last 3 years appropriation on that line. And this year. Now we've been lapsing 6 million per year. It was reduced. And again the Ndi is just the same amount of money. The difference between the last 3 and this year. So in the supplemental hearing we talked about this and provided a little bit of context in that we had about 4 million dollars of invoices that did not get processed in June as we would have expected. We have gone through the process not too long ago of rebidding our assessment contracts and there are increases associated with that . So the combination of the increase in the costs and the fact that we had funds that we did not get expended last year when even though they were obligated last year combined out to tell us we need that appropriation authority back. So we put together a plan that we think outlines what those needs are. So the same amount appropriated for 22, 23, 24 that we were lapsing year over year over year and then we did reduce it, we are asking for the same amount but on a ndi. it just doesn't say the request is 21 million why are doing the back and forth? I don't understand that, I don't understand why we are expressing a reduction on the core and we have an NDI to bump it back up. It's contributing to the cost of the project. I don't understand why we are expressing a core reduction on the core and we have an NDI to bump it back up to where it's always been. I can maybe, I'm willing to try to help on that. So we core reduced it in FY25 and so it's got to show up that way. It needs to, if they want anything beyond what the core is, because now the core is 18 million. They need to ask for an NDI. That's not to say whether it's needed or not or what the amount is, but that is the problem. I don't understand why we are expressing a reduction on the core and we have an NDI to bump it back up to where it's always been. I don't understand why we are expressing a reduction on the They need to ask for an NDI. That's not to say whether it's needed or not or what the amount is, but that is the appropriate process. That's the appropriate process. The amount that we are asking for, it turns out the amount we have been giving them on those, it just happens to be the same amount to the dollar. That's really cool. That's really cool. Thank you. Thank you. I will say on that, and there's some that I think, and it is kind of hard because you have to do the math, that maybe aren't the same. This I don't think is the first one that's exactly the same. This I don't think is the first one that's exactly the same. But I think there's some that we have to do the math, that maybe aren't the same. This I don't think is the first one that's exactly the same. I will say to the extent you can provide us whatever back-up. can provide us whatever back-up. Because I think, and I can't remember if it was in a hearing, maybe. I don't think it was. But I do think, Dr. Monses, I expressed to you, I would like to, if we could come to terms on these, because otherwise what I fear is that we are going to just, you know, we core reduce it and then you ask for it all back. And we core reduce it and then you ask for it all back. And we core reduce it and then we core reduce it and we core renegotiate certain returns. we renegotiate certain returns. And it's not like the groundhog day, and I don't know that that really, you know, serves anybody's interest serves anybody's interest ultimately to do that. ultimately to do that. And it's a lot of work for everybody, for everybody, for minimal gain in the end. minimal gain in the end. You all have, I assume, You all have, I assume, correct me if I'm wrong. correct me if I'm wrong. I don't want to put words in your mouth. I don't want to put words in yourmouth. A need and desire to have A need and desire to have sufficient appropriation authority, and we think about the National Abk I like to use the old knowledge way, receive Appropriation Authority. motivation Authority. And not that And not that this, I mean, maybe maybe at times at times this body this body doesn't want you . doesn't want you to have to have sufficient sufficient incorporation incorporated incorporation authority, but let's just that let's just assume at times, generally assume at times, generally we do. we do. And assuming at times, generally we do. And I think rightfully I think rightfully concerned I think rightfully concerned we hear from our and and so we're so we're so we're we try to we try to be be sensitive sensitive to that as well. well. I could I could believe believe I guess I guess just to just to representative representative Chappell's Chappell's point point to to try to try to to try to and and and I don't I don't know know if you've if you've thought thought about about in in this terms, this terms, but I but I could could would wouldn't wouldn't me me know know Is the same amount that in the previous ese year I think that is where some of this is coming from. I am not going to sit here and say that $18, million 23, thousand $505 is absolutely you'll know take my life on it that that is the right number. But it is, you know, seems awfully curious that It has just always been right all along. It is a question that truly needs to be going forward. So. I would just say I understand that concern. I really do. I think if we look across all these different federal, in particular the federal appropriation lines, there are some where we asked for a portion of it back. There are some where we asked for the exact amount we were short in the prior year and couldn't pay out. With special ed being one of those examples that we'll get to a little bit later. And there are some where we've asked for increases. But you're correct. There are two or three where we asked for the exact same amount. And we're just trying to find the right balance of knowing where the best place to be on all these. And it's very possible that this may not be enough even. But we want to be able to pick a number that we think we can live with for sure. Representative Chappell, follow-up on that and then we'll move on. Thank you for sussing out my imprecise answer. I'm going to go back to the question. I'm going to  have generality to answer this way of asking the question, what was the supplemental amount asked for. Does it about the same amount. So the supplemental is the same amount for this year, too, and it's how much you need for next year. That really is coincidental, that same dollar amount? Again, we did put together and provide a supplemental amount. It's just odd not to beat this particular dead horse too much. Three years we lapsed an average of more than $6 million. We take it down, and then this year we need all of it back to the dollar, and next year we need all of it back to the dollar as well. Okay. Thank you, sir. Representative Cupps. Representative Cupps. Thank you, chairman. This conversation kind of opened up a little bit for me. I'm going to go ahead and close it out. I think the conversation kind of opened up. That's why I was asking the question. I think maybe you knew that, but I'm not sure everyone else did. That's kind of why I was asking about the $700,000. This is something we did talk about in the supplemental. I want to thank you. I didn't get a chance to thank you. You all got back to me very quickly with information, but that's kind of the, you know, to take us back to that conversation, you know, I think the question was, the language on 490, I mean, this says a lot to me, further there's an increase in the contract cost due to a contract rebid in 2023. Well, that's when shouldn't the contract match the appropriation as opposed to the appropriation match the contract? That's something that we already talked about. I do think that maybe we need to have a broader conversation about that across the state budget, but that is the main reason. If you look at the NDI, which is by percentage, the GR that we are expending versus those federal dollars in what is now the core, versus what the NDI, let's face it, the $700,000 in comparison to the $2 million, you know, we're looking at a higher percentage of, with $300,000 of it being other, we're looking at a higher percentage, and so that's why I was, you know, I'm all for using the other, the additional $2 million to federal dollars, but do we need, for this committee to, I think, make an informed decision, we probably need to understand if it's necessary for us to spend that $700,000 to go ahead and draw down that $2 million worth of federal dollars, because if we can, if we can still get the federal dollars, we can still get the NDI, but if we can't get the NDI, we can't get the federal dollars. So I think we need to understand, you know, if we can't get the NDI, we can't get the federal dollars. If we can't get the federal dollars, we can't get the federal dollars, we can't get the federal dollars without spending the extra $700,000 of GR like this, do that, and we'll go ahead and give you the, I mean, give you a federal spending authority. I think we can all agree that we don't have a problem with that sitting here, but that still takes us back to the bigger discussion of the contract not matching the $200,000. So we have to understand that. We have to understand that the average increase per contract renewal is 1 to 2 percent. Says who? Says the company that's providing this. I mean, do you understand why I'm... I do. I do. And I think in this particular case, we're talking about assessments, student assessments. So we go through that bid process. They are required by I think state and federal requirements that we have these assessments. And so we do the RP assessment. We do the RRP assessment. And as I said, we can't just not test a grade level in order to meet the appropriation amount. So that's where we get put in a kind of a tough spot is to if there's a thousand more kids in third grade next year, I can't not test them. Or if the vendor price has got an escalator of 2 percent over the life of the contract, I can't just not test as many kids in order to make up for that 2 percent. So that's part of our challenge on this particular line item that's maybe a little unique compared to some of the others. I appreciate the answer. You know, that does make sense. However, I also feel like if you're going to be entering into contracts with the state, that you probably should understand that it's the duty of the contractor to honor a contract that matches an appropriation as opposed to then it's pretty easy to always say, well, you know, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. It's pretty easy to always come back and say, oh, look, we came in.little higher than if you know you're gonna get paid why wouldn't you continue to do that year-in year-out? Okay we can continue now thank you. Page 497 is a new decision item for the Innovative Assessment Demonstration Authority. This is a federal grant for $500,000 that would it's a demonstration grant that would allow us to try other assessments and if they are successful we could request a waiver to the feds of some of the currently federally required assessments. Page 4501 is the core for the Success Ready Student Network. This was a three million dollar appropriation that has been one-timed and is core reduced to zero for that reason. Page 506 is a new decision item for collaborative initiative for competency-based education and assessment. This would be with a consortium of LEAs including professional development resources for educators supportive LEA consortium activities and the development of CBE aligned assessments. This is the ongoing cost of the previous item that was one-timed. Yeah I was just gonna that's my question and so I think that really you you the one-timer with the success ready schools you you zeroed it out and this is the collaborative learning is what you're going to do as an ongoing process to replace it. Right and so on page 507 and kind of the box for it has some of the different activities that would be outlined with these funds. All right thank you you can continue. Page 509 is the core for the title one improving academic achievement of disadvantaged. The governor recommendation there is for two hundred and two hundred forty seven million dollars. Page 516 is the core for excuse me one moment we have a question from representative Christensen please proceed. Thank you so much just to inquire here real fast okay so it looks like on here we have a lapse on page 511 for about 16 million. Is there is there any way we're gonna end up spending the 247 or? So there were relief funds available to be used for the same allowable activities as are covered under title one that the LEAs were expending before the relief funds expired. Those are now gone and so we feel like these expenditures are going to come back up again since the LEAs do not have those relief funds available. Thank you. Representative Douglas please proceed when ready. Thank you. Have you or do you have an estimate as to when title one or big A is going to receive the additional funding for the fiscal year 25? There are some districts that are saying that they have not received all of the funding and so wouldn't that include will currently increase the current dollar amount that you have on 25 FY 25? Our title one allocations to districts are usually generated at the federal level based on student enrollment and poverty levels and so forth and so I'm not sure why there would be something different than what their allocations would have been provided already. So carryover has been expended already or set aside carryover set aside? It's possible that they would still have carryover on top of their regular annual allocation amount. Okay so do you know roughly when the districts will receive that or you're saying they already received that? I've got about three people telling me the answer and I'm not sure I can hear either any of them so let's just bring them up. Hi my name is Lisa Serino I am assistant commissioner in the office of quality schools and I believe that the short answer to the question is that districts need to request those funds. So they have already drawn them down I mean they've already requested those funds they're still pending. So if there is a specific district that you would like us to to check on we can certainly do that. I can do that thank you. Okay thank you. Okay we were on 516 which is the core for education for homeless and children youth. Governor recommendation of 12.1 million dollars to address the challenges that homeless children and youth face in enrolling attending and succeeding in school. Page. Representative Christensen you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you so much same question kind of as always so it looks like we've been lapsing you know nine ten million dollars I mean do we have a plan to spend all twelve do we think we're gonna get there? Well there was our homeless children and youth two different grants that the districts have been all working on spending there. So there was a pretty significant increase with relief funds and so it's it's been a little bit of a slow process to get those funds expended but at this point they have been allocated to districts and appear most of them will be spent. Okay thanks. Okay 521 is the core for the Stephen M Furman fund for the gifted nine thousand dollars recommended. Page 526 is the core for title two effective instructions for twenty eight point nine million dollars. Page 531 is the new decision item for title two federal funding. This is one that we had federal COVID dollars available to spend as well those have expired. Districts are beginning to return to requesting reimbursement through this program. Expenses for last year were thirty four point six million dollars and our core is is only twenty eight point nine million. So hence the new decision item. Page 534 is the core for title three part a language acquisition. This is a recommendation for five point six million dollars excuse me four point six million dollars sorry and the new decision item there is for two hundred and sixty three thousand dollars. Again this is looking at what our expenditures were in twenty four which was five point four million versus the core for this year which is four point six and the expected spend that we have that we anticipate on this line. Page 542 is the title for a student support and academic enrichment core for twenty four point eight million dollars. Page 455 47 is title 5 part B for federal rule and low-income schools 3.2 million dollars. Page 552 and 558 go together. This one is the transfer and one is the program spending for the school turnaround program for nine hundred and seventy five thousand dollars. The way this program works is the schools that are chosen receive half their funding at the beginning of the enrollment in the school turnaround program and then once they've completed all of their improvements then they receive the remaining payout. We have three schools that we're working out with right now and we do expect those to be paid out in fiscal year 25 and to receive the second half of their funding here. Representative Steinhoff you recognize for an inquiry. Thank you. I wonder if are you guys taking any data or letting them give feedback on whether they think it's really improving the situations in these schools? And if so if you could share it with us I guess at some point would be. I think Lisa could describe very briefly what the information is we're collecting from. Sure briefly we're collecting perceptual information and academic performance information from the participating schools. We do have a report prepared by the turnaround expert that we can share with you on the schools that are participating. That would be great. I think it's important that as a state we provide help to districts that we consider to be failing in some way so I'm happy to see that we have this going forward. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Chair. That brings us to the Office of Special Education. I think we have another inquiry here. Representative Lewis you may proceed. I just wanted to reiterate about the school turnaround act. It's not a lot of money but we obviously we put that money in there to see how those three schools did. Can we even say whether those schools now have moved off of the naughty list with Desi? Those schools are part of districts that are provisionally accredited. Right. And so they are. That's why I said the naughty list. So they have they have not moved enough yet to get off that list. But they are closer? I think there is some academic progress that's beenidentified yes okay I echo the representative that I'm curious about that money and what whether it's effective and whether we should and I'd be curious about the commissioners idea on whether we should pursue this again or whether we should you know that was you know whether the trial worked or not because I was you know helpful to get these funds and I want to know whether it worked or not otherwise we should move on and chalk it up to experience thanks so we're on the office of special education their first core is on page 5 64 which is the core for the special education grant for two hundred and twenty six point seven million dollars later on when we get into book five you'll find a piece of that back in that book as well there is a new decision item here for the special education grant on page 570 this is twenty six point seven million dollars we held twenty four point nine million in payments to school districts in fiscal year 24 and made those early in fiscal year 25 page 572 is the core for the high need fund this is to support district serving high needs students with disabilities where the students cost exceed three times the school districts average ADA current expenditures there's a new decision item here for 14.7 million dollars this is based on what we've received as requests for reimbursements from the school districts representative Lewis you may proceed with an inquiry yeah I don't know whether it's on the on the NDI or on the one before it but if we look back on page 573 based on this high needs fund you know you can correct me if I'm wrong but for those special ed students who are more than three times the amount of a normal student the state picks up the amount for those correct and in 2022 we had allocated fifty nine thousand five hundred we don't go back before that but fifty nine million five hundred thirty six thousand so on with five thousand of unexpanded then the next year we did the same amount we spent exactly that amount and then the next year we spent exactly the same because this is these are all this is all for individual students scattered around the state where we're reimbursing the LEAs for that amount of money right that's correct Shelley I'm just wondering how they can be the exact same for two different years because they would you'd have to give different amounts of different people unless you maxed out and then you didn't have enough to meet some of your obligations Shelley Woods chief operations officer and so what you're seeing here is the GR amount the federal amount that goes into the high needs fund is reflected under the special education grant core and that's the amount that you're that fluctuates that you're not seeing on this page so we're allocated a certain amount of our special ed grant that can go towards the high need fund and we've been able to offset increases with those federal funds but we no longer have that capacity so we you're saying in the one before the core for the the 226 million that a certain percentage that could be used for the high needs maxed out all of that yes so we we used all of that and then we maxed out all of the money from the general revenue for two years 2023 and 2024 and so in 2025 we've done the same amount we don't know what the result is 2025 we are short we're asking for and that's what the NDI need is and five on page 577 for FY 26 yeah for 14.7 and that's still using all of the federal dollars we have available in the in the 226 million correct I mean because they lap some of that but it's in a different different amount of what we can use it for is different in the in the in the special special education fund ask that one more time I'm sorry I'm saying I the special education grant you know bill section 2.2 90 at 226 since we lap some money in that you're saying we've used everything that we could there that we obligated and now we're gonna need 14 point some million more in the high needs category correct so our amount for the high need fund under the federal special ed grant ranges from 2.5 to about 3.5 any given year and then we have an additional year of carryover so we have maxed out the federal portion that we can spend under so we were under 14 million last year or you're in the mouth of a million is above and beyond everything we could pay out with GR in the IDEA federal funds appreciate it not I mean I understand what you're saying thank you do you mind if I just add one caveat to it typically before kovat with this high need fund we would see increases every year with the GR funds when kovat came our expenditures were lower and they had those relief funds to help offset some of those costs and now that I think we're recovered from the relief funds and the root the kovat that we're starting to build those costs back up again so these are very normal increases that we saw prior to kovat and for one student it could be in some of these cases it can be over a million dollars have we heard I mean is that true and what probably a million dollars is a little high but it can be it can be flirting with that it can be getting up in the many hundreds of thousands of for one of these I need students and a district obviously can't a district obviously can't float that and we don't ask them to if there's more than three times the amount it goes to the high needs fund correct okay part of that was for the edification of other people here but I think that's important thank you represent of us you have an inquiry you may proceed thank you just to continue on that line of inquiry so on page 565 it shows the previous year's histories once so this year we're currently authorized at 226 million roughly for your for ID a part B funds and by increasing the amount of general revenue do you think that will decrease the amount of lapse in these federal funds does this enable us to draw down additional funding okay so ID a has about 10 categories where you can spend special ed funds in addition to the flow-through that has to go to the school districts one of those categories is high need funds so there's about 2.5 million on average that we can put towards the high need fund so we've expended all of that anything that's lapsed in this is probably district flow-through because they did not request their money thank you very helpful thank you mr. representative Steinhoff you have an inquiry you may proceed thank thank you I know this is really going to help our districts a lot that are dealing with this issue it is a reactive way to spend our money I am curious I believe last year we got a list of what districts were particularly asking for the money and what the special ed categories were that were the most frequently used here I believe you all provided us that last year and I think autism was at the top and I I just suspect that helping our students with autism I'm going to guess is probably harder in rural areas than some of our bigger you know urban areas and wonder if there's been any discussion with desi to be a little bit more proactive and what kind of resources we can help our districts with to bring these expenses down but more importantly really serve our students and our families is there work in that area well I know that we do contract with MSU and they provide autism training and supports to school districts to help them serve students with autism and do we consciously try to make that connection when we see a district has particular students or group of students I'm not sure that we've said these students are from the high-need fund are being served in but that is something we could provide to them okay thank you thank you mr. chair representative black you an inquiry may proceed Thank You mr. chair are you aware that past few years has been money DMH money utilized to engage in diagnosis of autism at an earlier age than has been done in the past and with a with special diagnostic diagnostic techniques are you aware of that I am not I'm sorry I just wonder if that might be a good use of these funds if they could be so used and I'm kind of asking you if they think they could to use those contractors to try to diagnose autism at an early age and hopefully avoid some of these expenses these children may or it might be two or three or four you know they might not be in school yet do you think this funding would be eligible for that that's something we could definitely look into however I know that we already collaborate with DMH on our early intervention programs and our early childhood special ed where autism is being diagnosed early in the in the processSo there might already be some kind of collaboration between our agencies. Can you check on that? Sure. Thanks. I think we can continue now. Thank you. Page 580 is the core for the DFS DMH school placements. This is the public placement fund. This is a request for 7.7 million dollars. These are for non-domiciled students that are placed in a district by DMH, the Children's Division, Youth Services, the court, or by a physician order. We are prorating our reimbursement request for this and expect to pay about 60% in fiscal year 25. Page 585 is the core for the sheltered workshops. This is 30 million dollars for 87 nonprofit sheltered workshops working with about 5,000 adults. Page 590 is the core for readers for the blind for $25,000. Page 595 is the core for blind student literacy for $231,000. Page 601 is the trust fund for the Missouri School for the Deaf, $29,000. Page 606 is the trust fund for the Missouri School for the Blind, $1.5 million. Page 611 is the trust fund for the Missouri School for the severely disabled, $200,000. And finally in book 4 is the core for the Special Olympics program for $100,000. That brings us to book 5, which is the Office of Childhood book. Beginning on page 622 is the core for the Office of Childhood recommended by the governor for $15.4 million and $218.5 FTE. They operate the childcare, home visiting, early learning, and early intervention services for children birth to age 5, as well as after-school programs for school-aged children. Page 628 is the core for the early childhood special education program. This is for $216 million for children ages 3 through 5. These are mandatory costs that are reimbursed to school districts the year following the year in which the school provided the services. Page 633 is the new decision item for early childhood special education for $20.7 million. This is equal to the shortfall of funding in fiscal year 24. We carried over $2.7 million and we paid those early in fiscal year 25. It's been the practice for this program to handle it that way, as reimbursement can vary from one year to the next. Oh, I'm sorry, $20.7 million. Was I dyslexic again? Page 636 is... On that item on the early childhood special education, is there no federal attributable to that? I see it's all general revenue. Is there no federal support possible for that or anywhere else? Shelley Woods again. There are federal funds that go into the early childhood special ed program. I believe, I'm sorry, I think that portion of those are in that special ed core IDEA grant. And I think that's the only, I'm sorry, I know I'm looking at, I'm pretty sure that's where they are all allocated through. Yeah, and on this DI, I mean it's a cost to continue, so like if the need is greater, do we just, have we had, and I hadn't scrutinized it here, but have we had lapsing federal and we just have capacity there in appropriation or, I mean, why do we not see any federal dollars requested and just straight up general revenue? Is the federal grant maxed out or what's happening? Yes, we've allocated, there's approximately 30 million dollars on the federal side and that has been allocated, all of it. Okay, so we're the federal, so fair to say we fund this, general revenue will fund this program at a higher percentage than previously, so is it, is it just we're doing more, we've increased rates or what, like why is the federal capacity not there to support it at the percentage, let's say, that it has previously? Federal dollars have remained pretty consistent for that program, probably we've gotten a few increases, but I would say for the last five to six years it's been pretty consistent, the federal amount. We don't generally get increases to those funds because it's based on a formula at the federal level and that includes population, some poverty, so it's been fairly flat. So we think we should be doing more, but the federal government doesn't necessarily agree, I guess would be one way to look at it. The ECSC program is based off of a court case, we were sued and we lost that court case where it, yeah, unfunded mandate, thank you, where we've required special ed for ages three through five in our state and because we mandated that we are required to pay the price tag. Some of this though, is some or any of this attributable to to Medicaid, kind of like what we talked about before, because I mean if you're talking about, where was it, the services, I mean some of these things sound like maybe they'd be billable, is that? And districts do back off their Medicaid reimbursement on the the application that they submit and we deduct their federal reimbursement as well, so it is truly a GR call. Do we audit those or is there auditing of that because, and like have we ever gone back, I think what is Medicaid, two or three years you can go back and you can claim, do we ever do any of that or look to make sure we're maximizing that federal? So districts are not mandated to bill Medicaid in the state of Missouri, we can't force them to do that, that is at their option. In addition, the federal regulations indicate we have to have parental consent to bill Medicaid, so if a parent tells a school district, no you cannot access my public benefits, then the school district can't bill for those services. That's the federal law, federal regulation for IDEA. There's a federal regulation that says a governmental entity can't bill a governmental program without parental consent. Okay, I understand what you're saying. So if I could go back to again like high need fund before pre-COVID, we had increases to this program as well every single year, so I think this is kind of a getting back in routine. I think partially we saw the biggest drop-off in pre-k and kindergarten age groups as far as the student numbers and the early part of COVID, some of that has come back but not not in every case, but we did see about a 10% student count increase over the last two years for this particular program. Yeah, I mean and I didn't realize school districts, I guess I didn't ever think about in those terms that they're not required to, I mean we've certainly, it appears school districts have been doing more of that or getting more sophisticated when you look at that large line of a school district Medicaid billing, but that we're not able to, I understand there's a federal rule that if you don't get parental consent I can't bill Medicaid. I think you indicated that not all school districts do it at all and that we can't necessarily make them, which tells me like if they did and again presuming they get some level of parental consent then there would be you know federal dollars that could be accessed and that should before general revenue pays and with it not being the case general revenues I guess going full freight and we're paying with GR first and only, can we not require school districts to participate or to to bill Medicaid or is that like is there a federal rule or regulation are you aware of as it relates to that or to any states do you know require school district to participate in some sort of Medicaid billing program? I'm not aware of any other states that mandate that but I don't know of anything that would prohibit legislation to require school districts to bill other than they'd have to get parental consent. Right and I understand you'd have to comport with a federal law or federal regulation but as far as us saying that you know hey we need you to to make sure we're you know using our dollars as effectively as possible to help us to you know participate in this federal state program. Okay well maybe that's something to look at more another day but I think that's all the questions I have on this item anybody else have anything on this we can continue thank you. I believe we were on page three six excuse me 636 sorry which whichis the early childhood portion of the spec ed grant that Shelly was just talking about. Page 642 is the parent education and developmental screening. This is the appropriation through which we pay for the parents as teachers parent education program and that's twenty nine point one million for this core. On parents as teachers you know pre-k there's you know seems to be an expansion of that. We've already hit several items on that. As we see that capacity grow does it necessarily follow that the need for parents as teachers will diminish or decrease or that we'll see less expenditures there over time? Parents as teachers is a voluntary enrollment by parents so I'm not sure that that. But I mean my thinking is we're gonna have some of these kids that are in pre-k that maybe now or previously would have participated as parents of teachers and if you're in pre-k you're not going to be parents as teachers. You could. We don't think that's duplicative in any way? Part of parents as teachers is educating the parents and working directly with the parents and so working with the students in the school setting doesn't necessarily. What's the is there is there not a cutoff on eligibility for parents as teachers as it relates to age of the child? Kindergartens when it ends. It doesn't end at kindergarten. Well maybe we should extend it to I mean by the same logic if we're working with the parents I mean I think we probably need more work with parents through the continuation of high school. I asked for that when my kids and I were in parents as teachers could they follow me through the teenage years. Okay well we'll see what the fiscal note is on that. Continue for now. Okay page 647 is the core for the home visiting programs and then page 652 is the portion of those home visiting programs paid for out of the TANF funds. Page 657 is the core for a couple inquiries here. I think you saw them too. Representative Steinhall, you recognized an inquiry and then we'll go to Representative Christiansen. Thank you. I just want to ask about the lapse in both the home visiting programs. Is that we need to get more people utilizing the program? I know sometimes in other things it's like you don't have full staff and so that impacts services. Okay. Yes, Pam Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Office of Childhood. We started up a grant last year so it was the first year and we also had some turnover in staff but we're fully operating now. Oh good. All right and then I noticed that the appropriation I think has gone down in the regular home visiting program, right? That doesn't impact, we can't pick anything up in TANF to make up for that. I guess they're two separate groups. Oh from 24 to 25 the appropriation. Oh actually no also this year. Because of the grant being zeroed out I think. There was a McVie home visiting and you there was a McVie home visiting it was from our federal relief funds as well. I think you see that coming out on page 650. Okay and so reducing that amount we can't serve the same people through the TANF home visiting, is that right? Are they, do they qualify due to different ways? The TANF funds are just a way of paying for home visiting and those are funds appropriated. They're actually earned by social services and then we just use 2.9 million of those funds. Okay, thank you. Thanks, Mr. Chair. Representative Christensen, you recognized for an inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, 657 the Imagination Library. I don't think we're quite there yet, Representative Christensen. So any, so we're on, I had it that we're still and maybe I'm just really slow, I had it we're still on 647 home visiting programs. Have we made it to 652 yet? Yes. Oh we did, I'm just way behind. That was the portion of the home visiting program that is paid for out of the TANF funding. Yes, but a separate item. So on that one, I've got one question and then we can go to the Imagination Library. On this TANF item, I'm looking at and I heard the explanation that it's just, you know, it's the same home visiting, if I understand correctly. This is just a different mechanism by which to pay for it. Did I get that right? Previous two movers, these two would have been rolled together into one core. But with movers, if they have a different budget unit, they have to have a different core number or core page and so that's what's going on here. Some years with the 2.9 million funding in TANF funding, if Social Services tells us there's no cash to fill that up, we can't spend out of that line. On the TANF? On the TANF. Okay, so movers moved it and so now TANF is separate. And my question, and you maybe I think just answered it, but if you want to add on, I'll give you a chance here. My question specifically on this item is, we've got the 2.9 million in authority. There were some expenditures in FY 24. Of course, there was lapse in the other line too and there was, you know, the testimony given that this is being ramped up and sounds like 26 were expecting different results and I took it as less or maybe no lapse. But on this item, FY 25, year to date or as of 2-3, there are no expenditures out of this item. So is, so why is that? Is it just we're spending out of the other first or they're not TANF dollars to support this or is the need just not yet there? What, what exactly do you attribute that to? We spend out of the other lines first and hit the TANF lines last when we're assured that there are funds there to to back up the appropriation. Okay, so we spend all the GR and other federal grant dollars before we spend the TANF block grant dollars. Why is there a reason for that necessarily? Is that how DSS did it or why, what's the analysis there? Typically we have not had access to those funds till fourth quarter, so we have to spend the other funding sources first. We lapsed in FY 24 because we did have access to the relief funds. We didn't need to tap into those TANF funds. We asked DSS, hey if we use our ARP relief funds, can you guys use these funds? And they indicated they could. So it's just when we've had access to the funding. I'm so sorry, my contacts are giving out by the end of the day here. If I'm looking at you guys funny it's because I can't see you. Okay, very good. Well, thank you for that explanation. I think that's all I have for now. Anything further on this item? And we can, do you have an explanation for the imagination library and then we'll go to Representative Christensen for inquiry. Yes, I do. So the imagination library on page 657, the governor's recommendation is for six million dollars to reflect more likely utilization of this program than we've seen in the past. There are 367,000 children between the ages of birth to age five. We have 42% of those kids enrolled in this program. The Dollywood Foundation pays for the books, but we have to pay for the cost of the shipping or the mailing. That has gone up this year, in fiscal year 25, and that is because of the US Postal Service raising their rates. So the cost per child now to mail these went up from $26 per kid per year to $31 per child per year. We have 152,000 children enrolled. That is 42% of the enrollment. We're about two years into this. When we look at other states, Kansas was at 42% at just over two years. Kentucky was at 45% after just over two years in statewide implementation. Arkansas has been doing this for six years. They're at 46%. And Tennessee, who was the first state that started with this back in 1995, is at 70% participation in this program. Enrollment is voluntary, and the parents must actively enroll their child or grandparent or someone must actively enroll the child. Representative Christensen, you may proceed with an inquiry. Thank you, Chair. Sorry, I was I was just on the gun. When she said 657, I was just waving up. Okay, so you said 152,000 kids, is that right? Yes. Okay, so that's why the six million is going to reflect more, because it's probably going to be around four to five million, you would say, expended for 26? Look at what we've spent so far. For 26, we would, I think this projects out to where we'd be serving about 55%, up to 55% of the age-eligible kids. How many books do they get? I forget. One per month. One per month, okay. And then, does Imagination Library, do they give us, like, do they actually give us how much the books cost? And then, is there any administration fees that we're paying to them?to expense this by chance? We don't get a cost of the books from Dollywood Foundation. One of the unique features about the legislation in Missouri that is nowhere else in the nation is we have centralized the administration fee through our office. In other states, there's local match and local fundraising, so the burden's on the local programs. We're the first state to centralize that, and that has been well-received because the local programs now only have to find the families and sign them up. And so we're not paying any fees to imagination libraries? They are a fiscal agent, so that is different than other states. I don't have that exact amount, but we can do that for you. Perfect, okay, thank you. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry on this, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just to clarify in my own mind, so, excuse me, we have, in FY24, we've got $2.9 million, and I appreciate the fact that the department and the governor have reduced the request. That's great. That accounts for the fact that we have 42%, that's the 29.2.965 accounts for the 42% children enrolled. The 42% is just based on the kid count itself of what we think are the age-eligible kids. The 2.9, I need to clarify a little bit, the kickoff was, I believe, November 1st for the program, so it wasn't a full year in last year. I see. So, no state thus far has gotten above 70%, is that correct? I'm seeing a head nod back there. So, do we anticipate, Arkansas's been doing it for six years, and they're at 48. We anticipate doing significantly better than the other states? For whatever reason, we're just better at it? The growth between the first year and the second year, if we keep on that path, we will exceed what they're doing. Okay, all right, thank you. Page 662 is the Early Childhood Comprehensive Systems Federal Grant. This is for 255,600. Page 667 is a new decision item for this grant. So, this is a grant that Department of Health and Senior Services applied for and got, and was in year one with the grant to when their Office of Childhood Services were transferred to our department. It took a better part of that year to get that grant transferred from them to us, and then it took part of year two of that grant to get the contracting awarded and get this really rolling. So, we're kind of behind the eight ball on this one, and we need to spend the carryover that we've been experiencing for the last few years and get this grant fully expended, as the spending on this grant could adversely impact our ability to get further preschool development block grants awarded to us. So, this new decision item is just our attempt to finish spending this grant. Page 670, then, is the Early Childhood Coordination Corps for $17.3 million. This is for birth to age five and to decrease the fragmentation of services to children and families. Page 675 is the Corps for First Steps for $69.7 million to cover birth to age three children with developmental disabilities for early intervention services. Page 680 is a new decision item for First Steps for $17.9 million. We had a shortfall in fiscal year 24 of $4.7 million. We've had increased cost in the single point of entry contracts for $8.6 million, and then there's a loss of Medicaid revenues expected at $3 million. We discussed this a little bit in the supplemental hearing about how providers now have to have their own NPI number and enroll as Medicaid in order for us to bill for these services. To follow up on that, I mean, is this one that there's no federal rule or federal law or any, I guess, state law for that matter, would be good to know about, that would preclude or prohibit us from requiring these vendors to be Medicaid providers? I don't think we're aware of any rule that would prohibit requirement. I think our concern would be that a lot of these are individuals that are providing these services, not companies per se, and we may lose a good base of our providers because of that. I can appreciate that. I had a brief conversation with MohealthNet after the supplemental hearing. I don't know if the department's having conversations with them. And when I first heard that too, I'm like, well, okay. Government, Medicaid, provider, that sounds like a lot of paperwork. I've never enrolled to be a Medicaid provider. But upon speaking with MohealthNet, granted, I didn't say, pretend I am, I wanna be one, give me the paperwork and I'll decide how cumbersome it is or isn't. But they did make it sound to me as though potentially it isn't maybe as cumbersome as I would have thought and that they could help people through that. Again, I realize that the consequence of that decision could be less providers, which is viewed, deemed as not a good thing. But at the same time, it seems to me we have an interest in maximizing or minimizing, probably a better way to say it, the general revenue dollars that are gonna be employed here and that's gonna become even more important. And I do wonder, I mean, we have seen first step providers actually increase, right, with our rate increases. So that's, in some ways, we've got more providers than we've had, which is in many ways a good thing due to the rate increases. Is there or should, I don't see one, should there be an FMAP adjustment here because that's going down? Is that, would that not be reflected here? Would that be reflected somewhere else since the FMAP is decreasing? For 26? Our rate fluctuates, our Medicaid match rate fluctuates between 60 and 65% and our GR covers that. We don't need to make an adjustment for that. All right, I guess you're saying your program's small enough that you have enough flexibility there that it's, okay, all right, we're good. Thank you. Page 683 is the core for the Title I Preschool Program. This is the Office of Childhood portion of Title I, $31.4 million. Page, yes, there's flex between this section and the previous Title I section that we discussed in book four. Page 690 is the core for the School-Age After-School Program for $21.9 million for safety and care of children after the school day ends or when school is not in session. Page 695 is the Child Care Before and After-School Program for $7.6 million to provide students with enrichment activities and learning support during non-school hours. Page 701 is the core for the Child Care Quality Initiatives for $43.6 million. This includes like the quality assurance reporting, research and referral to help families seeking childcare, the professional development for those working in the childcare, and then promoting the quality early childhood programs. Page 705 is a new decision item for additional childcare development block grant funds coming into the quality initiatives line. So when we do get increases in those CCDF grants, 12% of that must be spent on quality, and that's what this decision item reflects. Page 708 is the core for the Adult High School Child Care for $1.5 million for those adults pursuing their high school diploma through adult high schools. Page 713 is a new decision item recommended by the governor for innovation grants for $10 million of CCDF funding to support new childcare centers partnering with businesses and community partners. Page 715 is a new decision item for the TEACH scholarships for $700,000 CCDF funding to ensure the continued scholarship for applicants who are pursuing their career at advancement. On 713, the $10 million, would that be your intention to make awards in FY26 and that those probably, funding probably isn't gonna be expended till FY27?like what what's the timeline on this? Our understanding is the innovation grants would include startup and construction and those types of costs that would be incurred within that year. I mean but before somebody could expend these if we're talking about a new child care center which is what I understand this to be I mean and there'd have to be some partnership with a business or a community I mean there's some and you know there'd have to be a grant application developed which I assume you don't yet probably have quite ready. What's unique about this is we used our funds for child care to have similar startup innovation grants so it would just be revising that and putting that out for the opportunity we wouldn't be starting from scratch. Would the would any permitting have to be done at the department level before grant funds could be expended? I mean you can't permit the child care facility until the child care facility is built but is there any other... They would need to apply to become a child care provider as part of the application so we know their intent. And what is the timeline on that? I guess again you can't approve them because they don't yet meet the requirements and that's but so so the application doesn't have to be approved but it does have to be submitted I guess would that be a fair characterization? That is how we handled the innovation grants they apply to be a child care licensed or license-exempt program at the time that they apply for the grant so that's included in their application. Okay so at least at the state level I mean there could be zoning and as far as construction but as far as at the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education level there's not permitting requirements that would that would delay this sort of initiative from commencing. Okay Representative Heine you have an inquiry on this please proceed. Thank You Mr. Chair. A quick question would this allow us to move into that tri-share model since you have the capability to have the business and the nonprofit and the child like that is that what we're thinking here on these grants? So it's my understanding the innovation grants would be to support the startup or expansion of the facility. My understanding of the tri-share is paying at the slot level. So this is just facility? Correct. Okay thank you thank you Mr. Chair. Representative Lewis. I just want please forgive me I want to go back for a quick look at 697 695 that's the after-school programs was this a federal program first and then we changed it to GR? So we started this just because I mean we've only got two years of history in 2024 then 2025 it's you know seven million all GR. We continue the federal program what we've been able to do with the GR is if we have additional applicants that we couldn't fund with 21st century then we're able to roll them into the GR funded after-school before-school program so they can also receive those funds. So there's an after-school before-school program that's federal that's just not listed here? It should be listed in the budget book before this one. I think that might be a movers thing because previously we had those all in one. Okay and this is just the seven million that we are doing on the state side? Correct in that particular budget. Does it require a match? No. Does this money go directly to the vendors or does it go through a pass-through entity first? Depends on how they applied it's my understanding most of those go to the school district or to the program that's providing the service. Okay. I on that and I was gonna we were going so fast and I've kind of missed it. I apologize. I'm a slow reader. I was gonna at the end of the book go back but since Representative Lewis already got us there on those two if you look at the GR item the the seven million and you look on so that'd be like on page 696 we're expending about all of that there's 482,000 unexpended and only 239 of that general revenue and and then you have that the other fund there but on the on the school age after-school program the one before on 690 that core of 21 million almost exclusively federal dollars in FY 24 we lapsed almost four million dollars so why are we not using all the federal first or does that federal not actually exist those aren't you know it's just authority and not dollars versus spending what looks like basically all the GR before the federal dollars I have to double check on the laps unless Pam knows the answer to that but keep in mind those are two different those are two different programs so to speak the federal after-school program requires certain academic standards be met and the state funded or the second federal fund that's called SAC I think is in their school age so those don't necessarily have the same standards that have to be met that's why we're able to take the extra dollars and award that to those who applied but maybe didn't meet those standards we can still fund their school thereafter school program through the SAC award or the general revenue program but we'll have to get back to you on why there was a lapse in the federal funds it could have been a matter of what they applied for versus what they sent to us for invoices to pay okay real quickly what I mean what are some of the distinctions or differences because and you know that description and maybe it's not but it's it's like well if the federal government you know they can't meet the program requirements and so therefore ours are maybe less stringent is it a less rigorous program or less redeeming and quality or value or is something else but not I'm assuming that's maybe not necessarily the case but the phrasing maybe leads one to believe that that could be the true but what what might be a distinction where it didn't qualify for the federal so the amount or types of academic standards could be math and English language arts but there could be additional academic standards and tutoring for certain amounts of time that's included as well so all of them have the base right all of them have the same after-school care and extracurricular activities and whether it's GR or federal correct and then there are additional academic standards on top of that to be met based on the funding so there are standards for the GR program to be correct not to and not okay thank you for that we can continue now I think we're on page 718 which is the child care subsidy core appropriation for 156 point six million dollars this provides subsidy subsidized child care for 22,000 children currently the payment is based on the 2022 market rate survey at the 100th percentile for infants and toddlers and the 65th percentile for preschoolers and school-age children the 2024 market rate survey is being finalized and we expect that it'll be published later this month representative Chapel you may proceed with an inquiry Thank You mr. chair okay so obviously there's seventy six point six million dollars in lapse for FY 24 and that's because of the lack of payment to the daycares across the state is that correct is this not that line you I think the the challenge there was relief funds were used instead of these funds for for that year but I need some confirmation there this is not the line we're in it is the line where all the subsidy flows if you will for the CCDF funds which line do I need to talk to you all about the lack of payment to the daycares all year long it would be in this line okay so that was my question but it's not the the laps you see there was not because of lack of payment it's because other funds were used for supporting the program if you look at the next core 720 page 723 mm-hmm this is a movers thing this would have otherwise been included in the pages 718 and this is the ARP child care discretionary funding that was used to pay for subsidized child care okay well we we've been made well aware of movers deficiencies and will not put you on the spot to suggest that it's just as bad for desi as it has been for everybody else I'll not ask that question I don't want to get my in trouble so let me instead focus on the fact that the daycares haven't been paid for a year in some instances where we at on that because when we spoke to y'all in the fall please don't misunderstand we tried to be as polite as we possibly could but we told you folks that if it wasn't fixed by the time we got back here it was going to be less so so where are we out on the expenditures to the daycare centers so I want to clarify last year we spent two hundred and five million dollars on child care subsidy and calendar year 24 the issue with the payment calculator generating payments accurately has been fixed and for any corrections that are being processed or attendance it's being submitted those are getting paid daily and have been getting paid daily since mid last year if there is a provider that is concerned that they are not getting paid for a particular child let us know we can research that and find out what's causing that child not to get paid but we are not aware of any providers today that are not gettingpaid for the services that they're submitting. The issue is the backlog at the time in which the system wasn't working and payments that were not getting generated correctly, either partial payments or payments that weren't getting generated, but we are not aware of any program today that's having problems being paid for their current services. I'm glad to hear that. So the backlog, where are we at on that? We've processed 70% of the backlog that we had from the time period when the system was not working. We set a goal last month to get the rest remaining of that finished at the end of this month. When we get to the end of the month we'll reevaluate. As far as we can see right now we're on track to get the majority of that cleared. It's not at all that I disbelieve you. It's not. But can I read something? Sure. Representative Chappell, staff in the Office of Childhood have been researching this issue and in communication with the child care program several times via email or phone call last week, staff determined the issue was with foster children records that were in the old system and migrated over to the new system, but all the data related to the child's record did not migrate over. On Monday of this week the provider account was updated accordingly to fix the data migration issue. Staff were going to communicate this fix to the provider once it was completed, but I will confirm tomorrow that staff have contacted the provider since the fix was made to ensure the provider is informed sincerely and I won't name names. That was in May of last year. So the fix last May doesn't appear to have fixed the problem of migration even though that's what we were told it was. And in June when I spoke to the department through the liaison and others I was told yeah it's probably because the fiscal year and this this will all get caught up in August. And then I was told again well October and then it was the last of October and then it was well we're going to get it done by December 1 and then it was we're going to have it done before we come back to you all for next budget year. But there is a daycare provider that just talked to me last week that has informed me in Springfield, not in my district, but in Springfield they're owed over a hundred thousand dollars from last year and didn't have the money because of that lack of cash flow to pay their property taxes and actually got fined because they were a couple days late on their property tax. So not only did we not pay them and still not caught up, but they're actually being fined as a result of the fact that the full faith and credit of the state of Missouri did not come through. And I'm not blaming you ma'am and it's like I said I don't this it's not that I disbelieve you at all, but it's not just this one provider. It's they're all over and they've lost families because they've told families that they can't you know some of them have said look if you can't pay for the child care we can't keep your child because we need staff to pay for. I've had I've had daycares in small communities where there's one daycare and they're at the they're at the precipice of shutting down and it doesn't just impact the daycare provider of course, it impacts all those families that depend upon the daycare so that they can go to work. And Representative Prouty may want to chime in on this too, I'm almost positive she will, but she brought up the idea that there was at least one family that couldn't afford daycare, left their child at home, got reported to DFS and their child was put into the foster system over this. We suggested why don't y'all pay 80% of what you know you owe, just cut them a check and reconcile when it's all said and done. But apparently that's not been done. And we're 70%, it's a year now, we're 70% caught up? I personally find that distressing, I truly do. I'm sure it's overwhelming, I really am, but when we switch computer systems did we not beta test that for a while and run both systems concurrently to make sure it works? That's what corporations do every day. We just split the switch and hope for the best? So there's a lot there to unpack. First and foremost, I would really appreciate if you could give me the name of child care providers that tell you that they're not getting paid. 100%, happy to do that, yes ma'am. We are asking you to do that. There's a lot of things to look into that when that happens, it could be a family authorization, it could be the provider's account, it could be something that's still in backlog that we need to get cleared. So please let us know, we will work through them and then we will let the provider know what that amount is so that hopefully they can report that back to you what the actual amount is. And the rest of it, I mean, I realize this, I threw a lot at you and I don't mean to throw it all at you, and the director stepped into this, this isn't her deal, but the baby's ugly and you got to take it home anyway. I don't know what to tell you, we have to fix this. Yeah, so the the system issues are fixed as far as the issues that created the backlog. The calculator, the child records, etc. If there is a, again, a provider that is indicating they're not getting paid, currently we really need to know that so we can look into that. The backlog piece, when I mentioned we still have 30% left to process, so the volume of that is 500 providers. There's a lot of children, 25,000 children, 2,500 providers, so the volume of that is large, three to four times what we're staffed to handle. So it's, it is taking us longer than we would like and we certainly would like to get everyone caught up today, but we want to make sure we do that accurately and informing them along the way as we go. So let me clarify, I contacted the individual in my district today and they said that Thursday they were informed that there's a change in which the payments are being made and it used to be made based, well I'm just telling you what he said, he was informed on Thursday of last week that there is a change in the way it's being made that it used to be based on the location of the center and now it's being based on the location of the child in question and so they're not sure, but they think that currently they may be being paid correctly right now, but because Rogersville, which is where I happen to live, is right on the county line of Green and Webster, we're trying to figure out which child is in Green, which child is in Webster and all of that, but that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a policy issue, right? So I'm not, I'm not, they're saying they think they may be right, right now. It's the backlog. That's where so many people are concerned and I hear what you're saying, but like was asked earlier, I don't mean to put too fine a point on this, this is clearly a welfare-based program. Why did DESE get this in the first place? Why was this taken away from Department of Social Services and given to DESE in the first place? What was the, do we have any idea what the rationale on that was? I can't necessarily speak to that, but I can tell you that having child care licensing, child care quality improvement, child care training, and child care subsidy with the same providers in the same place has helped tremendously in the sense that they can go to one place to get their information related to child care providers. Second thing I want to mention is we have significantly streamlined the steps that families need to be able to apply for child care subsidy. We don't require a schedule, we don't require an interview, we don't require a lot of the documentation because child care by itself doesn't require all of those things. So that we are able to get the family in, assess that information, and not be pending other applications or pending other steps that will help them know if they're approved faster. I'm confident that this last year's financial debacle has taught us all a lot of lessons and I'm glad to hear that you're streamlining all of that so we're able to do a little bit more efficient job in the coming years. I will point out that there was another daycare in my district last year that fired an employee and the employee went and made a hotline call and the owner of the daycare that's been in that city for, you know, 27 years plus, had to answer to DESE and DSS and DSS was easier to deal with than DESE was. So to clarify... So it's not exactly streamlined in some cases. Cases of abuse and neglect are still investigated by Social Services. We don't investigate any types of abuse, neglect, or hotline type things. Sure. You just investigate whether or not their licensing should continue moving forward. The licensing side of that. Based on the hotline call. Possibly. Yeah. But usually it's on the licensing standards for supervision and etc. Yeah, sure. But when a private owner of a family business has to stand up against not one but two departments of the state of Missouri, it's daunting from time to time. So I'm glad to hear that we're streamlining things and that may not be the case moving forward so that's good too. Really curious about as we progress toward a hundred percent of the backlog and I'm happy to work with you all on any individual piece and person, happy to do so, but I'm still flummoxed and again I know this is pre the director's time frame, I don't know how in the world we don't beta test an IT function when it's this massive. I don't know how we do that. I mean to me somebody royally dropped the ball on this deal and thousands and thousands of families across the state of Missouri have suffered the consequences. There is no way in the world I would have kept my job if Ihad done that. Thank You Mr. Chair. Okay we got several inquiries lined up here I will just kind of level set so the make sure I've got it straight we had 165 million dollars and well 165 million six hundred seventy four thousand two hundred twenty nine dollars to be exact FY 2024 appropriation authority that's on 719 you look at your core reduction for the federal dollars we used that was fifty nine million seven hundred eleven thousand four and sixty oh no excuse me it was forty nine million five hundred sixty one thousand one hundred twenty two dollars if I'm looking at it correctly on 726 and so you take the difference and you elapsed going back now to 719 seventy six million dollars and change seventy six million six hundred twenty three thousand nine hundred forty six so anyway close back of the envelope math around thirty million dollars that was available presumably to pay well actually I did all that math for no apparent reason because in in 24 those federal dollars they existed right we could have spent them they were there to spend so if we lap 76 million dollars in 24 that was all money that could have been made available to pay child care providers or did I get that wrong I thought there was some statement made as you know and we are making a reduction because we did put in federal dollars and now that's being core reduced there's no question about that but you want to speak to that the original spend plan for the child care relief funds was to include those funds and operational grants to the child care providers that was then switched to put the funds into direct subsidy payments but to your point those the original intent of those dollars was operation grants but we we've switched it to one to be used for subsidy payments which was allowable and kind of save the general revenue meantime was kind of the idea and we lapsed seventy six million six hundred twenty three thousand nine forty nine so I guess back to the question what amount of that is attributable to the to the you know providers that should have been paid that weren't paid I guess whatever the amount is because the appropriation authority was there I guess that's the point and I'll let representative Vernetti proceed with his inquiry proceed Thank You mr. chair getting back to your point ma'am about streamlining for parents applying for subsidies what what what is that time frame what do you consider streamlined just for what's an acceptable amount if I'm parent I've got a child that needs subsidy what's an efficient amount do you think so the reference to streamlining was the steps and activities involved in the families applying for that our our goal always is two weeks that is our in our federal plan is for two weeks for us to be able to take that application and process that and that does allow for time if families forgot something like proof of residency for them to submit that back to us so that we can review we're not there yet we're at about a three week or week time frame right now I think it might be a disconnect with whoever's the caseworkers are or whoever's answering the phones again this provider in my district her ears must have been burning that we were going to talk to you folks today so the timing was perfect but she's saying that that again I live in a rural area so at least half the kids in schools are on assisted lunches and at least half the daycare children that she sees are on some sort of a food assistance program and she's saying that everyone that is being talked to is saying that it's a minimum 30 days to get approved that's what your folks are telling people on the phone so we might want to clarify that but she references one and you know one individual that applied in December and still hasn't heard for two foster children that she's got so is there someone we can send these folks to to make sure this is taken care of because what this person's having to do is is take her kids to work which some companies are nice and let that happen for a while but that time has run out for this lady and again more stories along the same I won't repeat it because I know we got a lot of questions but this center is only being able to stay open because she's lucky enough to have three locations she has 300 kids but she has 50 50 payments that are past due since June of 2024 50 so I'll definitely send you this and if you could help with that that would be great but I think it's the disconnect between what the centers and the parents are being told of what's an acceptable time I think two weeks is far better than 30 days because I think we all see this what happens to these parents are they don't know where to go they're missing work it's a it's a trickle down into the economy beyond way beyond this poor kid and these are the kids that we need to be helping the most so okay thank you thank you mr. chairman mr. Steinhoff you have an inquiry may proceed all right maybe it was represented Prouty that's where I was wanting to go all along represented Prouty you have an inquiry it appears it's been a long day thank you mr. chairman to representative chapels point I today got contacted by someone from Buchanan County about the same issue I guess my question is they're calling y'all what's the extra urgency when we do it why aren't they being dealt with with the same Vic like I one shouldn't have to be a state representative to get this issue fixed as you know they're calling around offices these folks are still desperate and I I don't have you know the optimism representative Chapel you know I'm not blaming you specifically of course I am saying I don't think you all are going to have this fixed by the end of February only because the experience tells me for the past year that you're not going to do that but also if these folks are calling writing emailing staying on hold for hours and hours why does my direct email to anybody Trump that we actually have a variety of ways for what we call inquiries to be processed providers that contact us families that contact us anyone from the committee that contacts us we handle them through our office in the same way so if it is a family authorization issue it goes to the team to process that within one or two business days if not that day we have a team assigned to that if it's a provider issue for payment that gets assigned to the team member that's working on processing those those backlogs keep in mind there's probably five eight ten providers in front of you on that list so it may not get work that day but it gets on the list to be able to be worked it is a matter of volume keep in mind it's also a matter of volume so how much volume do we have left to where the anticipation is the end of this month and the reason why I think we're being so insistent is and you all to we by the time they call us and this is with anything by the time it doesn't matter whether it's a budget issue with any issue by the time our neighbors call us they've called everybody else they've done everything else and so we're getting these calls in desperation and I'm trying to convey that same sense here that this lady across the state for me because the last time we were here during veto I took a check out my purse and wrote her a check so that she can buy supplies I wrote another lady in another district a check out my purse to pay our gas bill because they said they couldn't pay their gas bill I have that much money these people are desperate what is this backlog like mid-february to where we'll get this done by the 28th manually processing these is not going to happen that soon we've actually pulled out all the data and we've started to put them into a separate calculator separate calculation so we can process them by provider instead of logging in and clicking on every single child record in order to process that that's not that's not going to happen by the end of the month but being able to automatically look at those if it's a complete request meaning we have all of the information that's in there teams can process those faster like that instead of using the system to click into each one of those to what specific I thought we were talking about the same thing here what specifically will be done by the end of the month so we're not going to clear the backlog by the end of the month the backlog that is 30% that was pending okay that's what our goal is to clear all of those out and that is the oldest of the oldest records right so we keep track of this on our dashboard each week and we update the number of providers that were still pending that oldest backlog it it is that month of January to July where the system was not operating the way that it should be creating all of those backlogs and payments we have about 28% of them left to process is there a number to that percentage I'd have to look at the backlog report I believe it's about 540 providers keep in mind we have 1,900 providers that we started with so it's about 500 providers in the records that they've submitted that's our goal to get those cleared out and you can see if you follow along we've come down a couple hundred in the last few weeks for the number of providers that are getting that are getting processed the fact that it was that high a few weeks ago is still breathtaking yes ma'am I'm just I share the frustration with everyone else getting these calls just reaching out to anybody that can help them and the only reason we're harping on this and I know it's late so thank you mr. chairman is that all the things that everyone else has said right I just I'm worried that people won't participate in the program because we're unreliable so it's not worth taking in subsidy kids because you have to hold your breath and cross your fingers whether or notyou're going to get paid when usually when the government no I'm not gonna say that but you would expect that government money is guaranteed money because the good Lord knows every 15th and 30th they've taken some from me I would rather it go to to the people to is so messed up and when they call it's hard to not feel personally responsible we have to tell these people something and to continue asking them for months after months after months is just I when I say I serve an underserved community it feels like I'm contributing to underserving them and that that's a just a feeling that's hard to describe when they're on the other end of that phone you know tearing up so I'm glad to hear that you know you all help them the same way in which you would help me which is all what I would would ask you all to do of course but yeah some folks close their doors and will never ever open again and then there are some folks who have sworn off state subsidies because this issue and it my last question is are we still using the same system that we kind of harped on last time that we thought was you know kind of trash you still got that's what we still doing we are using the same system and I just want to reiterate the system is working today if there are issues that you're hearing please let us know if it's a family that doesn't have an authorization it could be that we're catching up to those because remember we're not at our two-week goal we're at our about three to four weeks I do want to also mention we had 259 providers join us last year in a child care subsidy contract that were new to subsidy we had 88 leave so we are gaining more providers in the subsidy program there is more confidence in the system and in the program and in the payments and most of that is in part to the increase in the rates in August that was implementing implemented well we didn't have any hiccups with that the calculator was fixed when we rolled it out so the system is paying correctly so I think that's a very small win but for some for 259 providers to have confidence to join the subsidy program last year is helping I also want to reiterate I'm we're committed to getting every provider paid of course we are committed to getting every request paid reviewed if we owe them funding we will get them funding and I believe that I mean we would be remiss if we didn't say that I mean it's the representing part of being a representative right we we have to convey that and I agree with you I hope that the state does right by them and that includes when there's another be it for another system that we pick one that we know you know will work well without the excuses that like I don't even want to ever relive a hearing the likes of which we had when we were talking about the system last over veto session and I will also say yes I am glad that nearly 300 joined because we need child care but that's very little consolation to the about 540 that we still owe money to thank you mr. chair representative vocal you have any query you may proceed thank you very quickly I want to go over the numbers from the last few weeks so I I believe we had you before us on 129 so like just at two weeks ago or we had this conversation two weeks ago and at the time the numbers I remember hearing was that we got 30% left in our backlog 29 to 30 percent and about 550 providers waiting that was two business weeks ago have we made and then I heard you just now in your remarks say that we've caught up a few hundred have we made progress in the last two weeks because when I'm comparing the numbers that you just stated today to the numbers that we heard two weeks ago they seem identical in what were what the backlog looks like so can you just talk briefly and specifically about the progress we've made in the last two weeks to catch up on the backlog yeah I think the number a couple of weeks ago was closer to six hundred and seventy so we've dropped over a hundred providers in the last two weeks that we've cleared out their backlog and payments they may have had one lingering issue they may have had 40 issues so keep in mind those requests are by child so that varies on how many that they have still lingering so I'm just to clarify I believe we've closed out over a hundred in the last two weeks okay and that still puts us at about 28% of the backlog that needs to be worked through and then earlier in your comments I believe you used the word we plan to get through a majority of them by the end of February when you say a majority of them what can we anticipate at the end of this month our backlog to look like because I know I've been made a liar to my constituents I know a lot of people in this room have been made liars to our constituents I want to make sure that I'm not setting unfair expectations so when we look to the backlog and what that looks like at the end of February I know rep proud he already asked this question but do you anticipate us getting through a hundred percent of that twenty percent remaining remaining and what should we be telling people when they reach out if their request was complete meaning we have the information that they needed an authorization for the child the month of the service the attendance etc when we set that goal in January we did set that for a hundred percent of them to be reviewed if it's missing information we have to manually go back and look at those so I cannot commit to the ones that are missing information to be done but the ones that have complete information at the time that they submitted it we are on track to meet that goal are there things that we could be doing to help facilitate making sure that child care providers have complete information could we get a list and I mean I'm know my office would be happy to reach out and make sure that you have that information if that would be helpful or is there anything we could be doing to make that process go more quickly I'm not sure for this committee but you gave me an idea that we could pull those providers that do have something missing and have them give that information to us so we can be working on that alongside the ones that are complete so I'll make a note of that and we'll have the team start working on that okay yeah and in truly if it would be helpful to divide that up by district I don't want you to feel like you're alone in this but I also cannot express my frustration over the course of the last however many months we've been in here in this timeline keeps changing I think my colleagues have already said it very well but these are you know real families real lives real small businesses so if there are things that we can do don't feel like you're in it alone but let us know what those things are if I can reach out to the child care entities in Springfield happy to do it but we just need to know what that information is because I want to meet this end of February deadline and happy to help however I can also send to Perry the information for your child care providers to send in an issue or an authorization or something like that that's not working so we'll get that information to you okay and I guess I'm gonna ask one more question so you know you you just made the comment that we gave an idea like how have we not thought of that idea already how have we not thought to proactively reach out to child care providers and ask them to provide incomplete information so until the last month or so we didn't have a team that was able to pull that out systematically and do what I described earlier so we've repurposed a team to work on that since they have their previous work that's finished and so that's why we were able to do it that team is repurposed from catching up with current payments now that that's self-sustaining that team has been repurposed to work a backlog so we didn't have that functionality before January okay representative black you have an inquiry you may proceed thank you you said the system wasn't working what does that mean the system wasn't working previously you said during the period of time that the system was not working yes what was not working so in order to make a proper payment you have to have the correct family information child information provider information and service the family's information did not migrate in and get put into the new system correctly the child's information did not get put into the new system correctly etc so pieces of those components it's needed for a payment wasn't working properly until July August time frame July August of 20th of 24 24 correct and as a result of those problems did the department put on additional staff acquire additional contractors yes to try to help solve that problem yes we share that information in September and think we can get that information again that information being the amount of money you spent to try to help fix the problem the additional people and additional contracts yeah do you know if this not to mention that our problems are financial compared to all the serious personal problems that the families had that we've already heard about but do you know if the state exercised any recourse against the vendor for those failures not that I'm aware of can you check that out and find that out for us along with the amount of money that the state incurred to help try to fix the problem I'd like to know that I'm sure we always thank you representative boss you have an inquiry may proceed yeah along representative blacks line of inquiry here have we done an after action on this software implementation we haven't yet Commissioner spoke to that back in September we are planning to do that we are still in the final stages of this contract process so we're to the point now where I think we're ready to do that what do you envision that looks like bringing in a third party that has expertise in this particular area to look at an implementation and development from beginning to end hopefully that's not how I would define an after action and so maybe we need an offline conversation but I would really expect that the implementation team and the sponsors of this implementation have sat down and reviewed how we got so far off track and what we have learned and what we're doing to correct that course during this program but also how it's informing us for the many IT programs that the state's being requested to fund and I would think that based on the level that this program has highlighted we would have done that after action already and so my encouragement would be would be we need to schedule that sooner rather than later and I don't know that we need to spend more state money on another contractor to come intell us what that other contractor did bad. I can probably tell you that and I think representative Chappell's probably got an opinion about that as well. That just spurs a whole nother litany of concerns that I have around how we're managing IT projects and as the chair of that subcommittee I think I may call for a public hearing on some of these things because this is just unconscionable what we've done and the answers that we're getting around I have an idea and representative Fogle's about you got to be kidding me that we're just not thinking of ideas and this is over a year after we tried to go live in this thing and we have shut down businesses and ruined families lives and their personal fortunes. I don't know that we're addressing this with the seriousness that I think that this committee really expects to be very blunt about it. I know that's not your problem sir but I'd like to ask for some time offline. I'll take my questions offline but I am extraordinarily disappointed in how we've responded to both working in the system but on the system to try and fix some of these things. So I'll take my inquiries offline. Representative Cupps. Thank you chairman. This is a sincere question. Have we been sued over this and are we gonna are you all I say you all are we as a state going to be dealing with any legal costs or is that something we need to expect or? I'm not aware of any at this point in time. Okay that's something we just kind of like to stay up on and as has already been pointed out numerous times this evening is a concern of mine because of how egregious this is and I know you all are making efforts sure enough right now but I don't I have not seen anything as egregious as this at this scale where seemingly something didn't end up in court and so please just keep us abreast as to that if something like that materializes. So I am conflicted here I've been wanting to you know try to just keep keep going I know it's late and everybody's presumably got other places they'd like to be or need to be yet we're well over in excess of four hours so I just don't know and we've you know got to finish book five and book six I don't know that it's fair to everyone to just say we're gonna go to whatever the bitter ends gonna end up being which we will ultimately do so let's come back take five minutes maybe just stand up walk around if you need to step outside we'll come back at 9 12 p.m. that clock is not correct so by this clock in front of me which says 907 we'll come back in five minutes and stand in recess you you you