If an institution awards it to a student that's not eligible and they have to return that money to us, we'll respend that in the program, but the accounting system counts that as $2 instead of just $1. We have to have some additional room on top in order to be able to do those returns and then respend those funds. Next up is on page 90. This is the transfer appropriation for the Access Missouri Scholarship Program. This is our major need-based program, $75.4 million is the appropriation here. In addition, statutorily, there's a transfer that comes from gaming funds that doesn't appear here. There's an additional $5 million that comes over from that perspective. Again, this is our major need-based program. There's not an application. When students fill out the FAFSA, we get that data and then we determine their eligibility based on the information that's on the FAFSA. We serve about 40,000 students in that particular program. Then on page 95 is the spending authority one. Representative Voss, you have an inquiry on this side and you may proceed. Where would we find that other $5 million in a book? It's coming from gaming. I think it's in Bill 5, I believe, House Bill 5. In OA, in Office of Administration? It may be in 8. I'm sorry. I'm not sure. I'm not remembering exactly, but it's coming from gaming. I just would have assumed that we would have shown a different line here, another line for another source of revenue from a fund if it's going to be used for these types of purposes. That's all I'm trying to figure out. I'll take it offline. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, I don't know why it doesn't show up that way, but that's the mechanism. Your own description on page 90 says $5 million from the Gaming Commission in House Bill 8, which would make sense given that Gaming Commission is in House Bill 8. That part makes sense. I don't know about the Gaming Commission fund. You don't have any Gaming Commission fund here. No, it doesn't show up in our bill at all. That's interesting. You don't know why that is necessarily? I do not. That's the way it's always been. I know that's not a very good answer, but I don't know why it was set up that way. It is an answer. I'm supportive, Chair. I just wanted to make sure that we had it all. It is interesting that it wouldn't be reflected here. Maybe there's some statutory or maybe we can't appropriate gaming funds out of House Bill 8 that it wouldn't be reflected here, but anyway, I would be kind of curious of the history on it because it's not intentionally misleading, but save for that, which now maybe adds more confusion. It's not reflective of the total amount. You'd have it at two different places, so it's kind of interesting. All right. Thank you very much. Hold on. Representative Black, you have something on this? Please proceed. Thank you. I kind of missed a tab, Mr. Chair, but on the access scholarships, I think several institutions advertise that for Pell-eligible students who are qualified for the, I mean, the Pell-eligible students are able to attend without tuition and fees, and is this the program that fills the gap for that non-Pell? No. This can be spent on, or the funds can be used by the student on any educational or related expense, and so if there's, so for example, I think the land grant program at the University of Missouri covers the tuition and fees for certain students. If they were eligible for access, and most of them probably are, then they can spend that on, these monies can be used for books or room and board or other educational or related expenses, but it's not, it doesn't interact with other programs like A-plus does, for example. Okay, so if an institution, and you can correct me, I think maybe all of them, at least several of them offer this, no tuition and fees for Pell-eligible students, maybe that's after they apply whatever access scholarship they might have, then somehow, is that? And they could be doing that, again, I'm not familiar with all of those programs, but some of them may be doing it that way. It's not a part of the program, but they may say, oh, you're eligible for access, then we'll pay the rest out of our institutional funds. They might handle it that way. Okay, of course, for, do all the institutions, or at least most of them, that have dorms now require their, at least their freshmen, to live in the dorm for their first year? Is that pretty common? It is pretty common. I, you know, I don't know how many there are that do that, but that is pretty common. So the, if the program said no tuition and fees, then since it doesn't say dorm, I presume those students would still have to pick up their dorm fees? I would assume so, yes. Which are more than fees. In many instances, that's correct. In most cases, right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, I think we're ready for page 95. Again, that's the spending authority line for Access Missouri. Again, as you can see, there's room there for that $5 million in our spending authority in this particular one. Next one up is on page 100. This is the A-plus schools program. This is the scholarship component of that program, $60.3 million. We serve about, it's right between 13,500 and 14,000 students in this particular program. Again, they have to meet certain criteria in high school. If they do that, then this program will cover their, it's a last dollar, but it'll cover tuition and fees for those students at a public community college, at Rankin Tech, or at an area vocational technical school. And then, Representative Martin, you have a question? You may proceed. Yeah, just a quick question. If I'm looking at correctly on page 101, just the unexpected, unexpended funds for fiscal year 2024, the $11 million, you're using them up well, 2022, 2023, and then all of a sudden $11 million. Just curious on that. Again, numbers have gone down, or what? It's been flattened out. We've seen some real, we saw a big disruption during the pandemic, and so it was really difficult to predict exactly where we were going to be and how the program was going to grow. I think it's going to kind of grow back into that, but we've kind of hit a lull here, is what I would say. Okay. The, I mean, you were, and I don't know what the 2020, 2021 numbers, because we don't have those in front of us here, but you were higher in 22 and 23, and then dropped down in 24. I mean, is that, could that really be pandemic-related at this point? I think that's part of it. Again, I don't have a complete explanation, but that's what we've seen, is that we saw a big spike during the pandemic, and then we've begun to see- I see a spike as in utilization. Right. And now it's dropping off. Correct. Interesting. Again, we don't know how many students are actually completing the A-plus component at the high school. We don't get that number. I don't even think DESE collects it anymore, but again, that's what we've seen in terms of utilization. We have a, I mean, we kind of have something of a potential liability hanging out there. We don't even know what it is until they show up at a community college. That's correct. Well, that's interesting. We don't see wild swings in this, so we can't predict it, but you're right. I mean, we don't really, it's kind of a black box in that regard. We don't really know until they show up. And I guess I could see it, because it's what's happening at the high school level is where that eligibility would be determined, but so I could see you all not necessarily, you know, within your own, left to your own devices, necessarily having that at your fingertips, but are you saying that DESE doesn't know, either, or track that to your knowledge? I don't believe they collect that data anymore, so I assume they did when they actually handled the scholarship component, but when it was transferred to us, it was my understanding that they stopped collecting that information. Okay. All right. Thank you. Sorry, I didn't see the representative sign off. Please proceed. Sorry. Just to make a comment to that conversation, I feel like it goes back to what you said about FAFSA. This is a group of young adults that were kids during a really hard time, and I think that there were delays in their learning and delays in their social development that are going to carry through for a long time. So they may have earned, if I'm understanding right, they may have earned this A-plus money and might be using it in the next couple of years, where in a normal year, they would have used it kind of immediately. Right. They do have 40, after they graduate, they have 48 months to use the benefit, and so it could very well be a deferred situation. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Martin, you may proceed. I'm sorry. I just had a follow-up. That's interesting to me, because I think that would be valuable information, especially from DESE, if we're having 600,000 kids or something, in A-plus, and the next year it drops to 400,000, and then if we have 600,000, but then only 200,000 are actually applying for scholarships, that would be interesting to see if they're pretty similar, or you'd hope that the programs would be very effective. You don't say, I'm in this program because I want to go to whatever, to Mobiley Junior College or whatever. You know what I mean? You think hopefully pretty close to 100% would do it and then go on. It would be interesting if there's a disconnect there or what. Right. And again, we haven't had the data for quite some time, but I know when we took the program over, which has been 15 years ago now, that the situation was about 50% of the high school seniors were completing that, and then we would get about a third of those that would actually use the scholarship. Now, again, many of them may be going to four-year institutions, you know, both private and publicyour institutions, a number of them offer some kind of a scholarship of various kinds if they, you know, if you're an A-plus student, so it could be that as well. If we're ready to proceed, then I think the next one is page 105, and again, this is the spending authority piece for the A-plus program. Up next is the page 111. This is the core for the Fast-Track Workforce Incentive Program, $4.7 million. Again, this is our workforce, adult-focused workforce-related program. The majority of students are 25 and above, and you have to enroll in a program that's been determined by the coordinating board as a high-demand, high-skill kind of program. So again, $4.7 million. This is the transfer appropriation. Page 117 is a new decision item for this program. Again, we continue to see this program grow. Last year, actually, the spending that we had to do was actually above the appropriation. Luckily, we had some fund balance to cover that, and so in order to try and reflect the growth here and be sure that we can fully fund students, we asked for about $5.3 million. The governor recommended $2 million. Again, I think in retrospect, as we've begun to look at this year, I think the $2 million will be fine in that regard, so I don't think there's any question about that. What is the – I mean, you said it's been growing. Last year, we actually had to use some fund balances to cover the cost, but if I'm looking on 112 right on the core item, it looks like FY24 was actually less than $23 or $22 on actual expenditures. If it's $2.7 million, am I missing something? Again, that's the transfer amount. We did not transfer the full amount because of the fund balance that we had had. That's why that shows up as unexpended. When we get to the spending authority, you'll actually be able to see we actually spent about $5.4 million in the program. Okay. I recall, and that makes sense, because when this program started, we were funding as a transfer much more than was needed, and for some reason, the transfer was made, which is pretty unique, and so a fund balance accrued, which you spent down, so you needed it eventually, but it took a number of years, and that's kind of – we kind of got a little out of order, but now you're back to money in, money out. That's correct. All right. Very good. Thank you. Representative Hynde, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. On fast track, I know there's been conversations, at least within my community, my community college, Chamber of Commerce, of wanting to increase that income threshold. It was set at $40,000 for a single earner, and when was it set up that way? The legislation was originally passed in 2019, and that's when those levels, it was 80,000 filing jointly, 40,000 for any other filers. Have there – has there been any conversation on your side to increase that, and what would that look like from a financial standpoint? There's a bill in process, I believe there's both a House and a Senate version, that would raise that to – it would raise it to 100,000 for married filing jointly and 50,000 for everyone else, and then would index it to the CPI so that it would keep pace. And so, that's the – we recognize that that's an issue as well. So, what would it take to fund that bill? Do you have enough with this increase, or how much – I mean, it's one thing to pass the legislation, but if you don't have the money to back it up? Correct. Again, I don't want to give you incorrect information, I don't remember what the fiscal note was on that. I don't think there's necessarily enough right here to cover that, I would say. All right, so is the fiscal note already prepped for it? It should be, yes. And you feel like it's accurate? Yes, I think so. Okay, perfect. Then I'll look at that. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let's see, I think the next item up is the – this is the spending authority piece for FASTRAC that's on page 119, again, $6 million in spending authority. Page 126 is the NDI, again, that would increase that spending authority consistent with the NDI for the additional transfer for $2 million. The next item is on page 128. This is the dual credit, dual enrollment scholarship, the transfer of $7 million. This is the core item for that. Again, this provides tuition and, if there's fee coverage, for high school students that are enrolled in a dual credit course, which is a course taken usually at the high school, taught by a high school teacher, but it's a college-level course, or dual enrollment, which would be the students – typically, they're going to the college campus and taking a straight college class. Again, whether that counts for high school credit or not is up to the local school board, but that's how the program operates. It's a very new program, and so we're – again, this is one where we're going to continue to see some growth in terms of this program. Page 133 is the spending authority for that, again, $7 million there as well. Up next is on page 138. This is the advanced placement incentive grant. This provides a one-time $500 scholarship or grant to high school students that are either access or A-plus eligible, and they have scored a three or above on either a math or a science AP exam. And so, again, there's a – we get a few applications in this. This is not a very big program, but the funding is provided from the incentive grant fund. It's basically provided by MoHELA. Representative Douglas, do you have an inquiry on this item? You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to go back to the dual credit on page 128 – I'm sorry about that – because how do the students access the funds when they have a dual enrollment? So, is it through – directly through their local school district, or is it through the FAFSA that they complete for financial aid services? Well, high school students can't legitimately complete the FAFSA, so there's no FAFSA involved here. We collect the information about the students for their eligibility, and then if they've – and there's an application process, and they tell us, you know, I want – I'm taking my dual credit course from Lincoln University, for example, then we'll send a roster to Lincoln University that says, here are the students that we – dual credit, dual enrollment students that we think you have there, and then they will verify, yes, this student is there, this student is there, and then we provide the funding through that institution rather than directly to the student. Okay. So then, ultimately, the institution is going to cut that student a refund check? If that's the situation, again, it depends on – sometimes they will wait for us to pay before they'll charge the student, sometimes they do, and then they would issue a refund in that case. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representative Lewis, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. So you have about $770,000 expended or something like that on that dual credit? That's correct. So that's not a large number. You know, you're looking at maybe $300,000 per credit. You know, I don't know. I'm just going if it's a three-hour credit, $100 a credit hour, something like that. I mean, it obviously depends on where you're getting it from. Right. But, I mean, you know, I know at MACC it was $42 a credit hour, and then I think they jumped it up to $54 if you're out of, you know – It's about 70 or 75 average statewide across all types of institutions. Okay. So that's why I was rounding to 100. So that's more than enough. So you're looking at 7,000, you're looking at 70 students or something? I believe we paid, and I don't know the number's not in here, it's in the program, but we paid several hundred, yes. Okay. But it's in the hundreds, not in the thousands. It is in the hundreds, not the thousands. And it's been in place for two years. They can do that at high school, or they can do it on campus? Correct, yeah. Either way? Either way. Either way they could get re-made whole with these funds? Correct. Does it pay 100% or is it a 70-30 or what? No, it's 100%. Whatever the student owes, we'll pay. No, they qualify. Right. Okay. But we're not going to go to – I mean, let's just say we doubled what we are there. Right. You're correct. Okay. That's fine. Let's see. We did the advanced placement, so I think we're ready for page 143. This is the Public Service Officer Survivor Grant Program, $160,000. This pays for either children or spouses of public service officers, and that's Highway Patrol, police, firemen, certain kinds of Department of Transportation individuals. If they're killed or severely injured in the line of duty, then this program will pick up the cost. Again, it's capped at the University of Missouri rate, but it'll pick up the cost for those students to attend college. And then the next one is the Wartime Veterans Program. That's on page 150. Again, this pays for either a survivor, a spouse, or a child of a – oh, did I skip it? I think you missed the NDI on 148. I apologize. Public Service Officer Corps. I apologize. I got to going too fast now, so – right, 148. This is a new decision item for the Public Service Officer Program to increase our appropriation by $113,000. This is really a reflection of, again, the changing tuition amounts of institutions, and it really is a reaction to banded tuition, which we're seeing more and more of, and so we're asking for this just to be sure that we can –continue to pay, fully fund all these students that are eligible for the program. Did you say it was capped at the University of Missouri? I believe that's right. Is that on 149, it's been a few years since I was in school, but it says it's 12 credit hours, I guess is the math, at $569.10 credit hours. Is that the undergraduate rate at Mizzou? That's the, I believe that's the mid rate. Again, they have a tiered tuition. There's three different tiers in terms of, right, three different tiers of engineering or this or that. That one's not, this is for the step below. But this is kind of what, that's what you're referring to, it's that sort of a dynamic. Correct. Different programming is, it's not just this is the rate. That's correct. Because we changed the statute on that a few years ago to allow them to do that, and I guess they're doing it. That's correct, yes. So this is, because, and it is just for undergraduate, it is program. It is. But if they were, if they did want to go and do engineering, then it would compensate for that. It would, yes. And so this is, and that's why you picked the middle one to try to. Try and balance the two. Some will be higher, some will be lower, and you hope it comes out in the wash. Right. I got it. Okay. But that's the, what's the highest rate then? My goodness. It's over $600, but I don't remember exactly what it is. I'd have to look and see. I feel better about what I paid, given that. So cost of living is high, and it's going up still, I suppose. All right. Very well. Thank you. Any other questions on this item? Please continue. All right. Page 150 is the Wartime Veterans Survivor Grant Program. Again, $495,000. This program pays not only their tuition and fees, there's also a $2,000 housing allowance and a $500 book allowance. But again, the same thing for survivors of those that were killed and or severely injured in action in post-911 military action. They have to have been in combat or in a combat zone. The next one up is the, on page 155, this is the Kids' Chance Scholarship Program. This, we fund this program out of interest from a corpus that was built up over 10 years time. There's a million dollar corpus. We can spend the interest from that. This is for children of workers who were seriously injured or died in a work-related accident. That's covered by workman's compensation. And so we partner with a private scholarship provider on this, and so they provide a lot more than we do, but we pick up a couple of students. Right now, we, like I said, I think we paid two last year. Our next item, a new decision item on 160, because interest rates have been higher, the program is earning a little more money, and so we want to increase our spending authority by 7,000 so that we can pay an additional student. And again, kind of rebalance our spending with what the the program is earning in terms of interest. Next one up is page 162. This is the Minority and Underrepresented Environmental Literacy Program, 36,964. This program provides scholarships for full-time students that are in bachelor's or master's program. This is one of our only post-baccalaureate programs in an environmental related field at a Missouri college or university. Our next item up is on page 168. This is the Returning Heroes Program. Again, this is a statutory requirement that our public institutions reduce tuition for students, for veterans that meet the criteria. There's two different tiers. At the undergraduate level, it's $50 of credit hours the maximum they can charge. At the graduate level, which was added later, it's 30% of the tuition, and the statute allows us to bring forward a request to reimburse the institutions for the tuition that they waived the prior year. That's the $1.386 million that we had requested. The governor did not recommend this program or funding for this program. Up next is page 171. This is a Loan Program Administration. The department was a legacy federal family education loan program guarantee agency for a number of years, 30-35 years. We continue to want to close that program out, but we also have funding that we can spend for default, aversion, those kinds of things, and so the $640,000 allows us to do both of those. One, make our closeout payment to the U.S. Department of Education, but also then use the funds as they were provided for. Next is page 176, the Core Collection Payment Transfer. Again, as I indicated, we've gotten out of the guarantee agency business, so there was a an appropriation here last year to allow us to transfer funds out of the federal fund, and again, we just had to show it here even though there's no activity, and basically the fund will be closed. With that, we'll move on into the workforce development side of things. Again, page 181 is the Core Workforce Development Administration, $16.4 million. This is what funds the administrative side of our Office of Workforce Development, and we administer the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, the Wagner-Peyser Act, the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act, Veterans Employment and Training Services, and several other federal programs. Again, this is the main way that we do that through job search assistance, connecting job seekers with employment opportunities, helping them with job preparation. What a lot of people don't know is, though, that we also work with employers to help them, whether it's recruiting or finding jobs. We have a job posting that they put out, so we really do work both sides of the street in that regard in terms of trying to help individuals that are looking for jobs and help the employers that are looking for individuals to fill those jobs. The next item is on page 190. Again, this is a new decision item which would increase our spending authority. Again, these are primarily federal funds, and so we need spending authority to be able to do that. Last year during the legislative session, our spending authority was reduced to a bare minimum. The issue that we have with this is that it really does restrict our ability to be able to respond to emerging situations. So if there's a disaster, if there's a an economic downturn, and additional federal funding becomes available to address that situation, and the timing of coming to the legislature doesn't work, we're hamstrung in that regard and can't really go forward and spend those funds, and so this is a request basically to reinstate our spending authority to what it was prior to FY25. The next item is on page 192. This is an indirect cost rate request. We had requested $900,000. The governor did not recommend this item. This would have allowed us to move from our current cost allocation plan to an indirect cost rate and would have really reduced our administrative overhead in terms of handling what we need to do in terms of administering the federal grants that we administer. Next is on page 195. This is a youth-based learning request. Again, a million dollars. The governor did not recommend this funding. This would have allowed us to increase our services to youth, particularly work- based learning, so pre-apprenticeship programs, internships, those kinds of things, in order to give students. One of the things that we continue to hear is that students that are graduating don't have job skills. It's not, maybe it's not that their technical skill isn't there, but again it's about showing up for work, you know, working with others, those kinds of things, and so this would allow them to have that experience of actually working in a workplace setting and gain the understanding of what that's like and how it's going to be once they graduate. Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. So this was an NDI. Did you have a pilot? Has there been a pilot for this type of youth-based learning? We do some of this kind of work as we can with federal grant funds, but we haven't been able to really tap that market, I guess is how I would describe it. We do some work in terms of youth work-based learning, but there's not a lot of federal money there, and so that's why we were asking. We think this is a really important area to move into or to increase our presence in, but there's just not federal funding to be able to do that, and so that's why we were asking for general revenue. How does the department support this type of apprenticeship, you know, high school apprenticeship? How does the department currently support this type of learning? We work in partnership with the various schools and that, again, we've got a pilot project right now with the Columbia Public Schools to try and build out some of this and look at how that would work, learn from, you know, a pilot project so we can apply that to that kind of a situation. So it's really in partnership with the school district and again with the local employers as well to give them the opportunity to both do the education side, but also then the actual work-based learning, you know, going a part-time during the day to actually work in a workplace and understand how things function in that regard. Director, was there something you wanted to add? As part of our staffing, we do have, with our communications and outreach team, we do have a small set of staff that do outreach work, and they work with the school systems, a lot of it with FAFSA. Part of that also, we just try to communicate what is available. We try, we have a, every summer we have a meeting with all the high school counselors, and so we do work to try to keep them well informed as to some of these opportunities that are available so they can get the word out to their high school students. So I was just gonna add that part that we do have a staff that's focused on this, but they're quite small. Is there overlap between this program and something that DESE is currently doing? I mean, we've worked in partnership. I don't know that I would say that there's an actually an overlap in that regard. I think this takes a different tack than what DESE typically does.least that's my understanding. Okay. And what feedback or do you have any insight as to why the governor did not want this program? I do not know. You were planning to stand this up. Did you have a pilot location or a couple of pilot locations in mind? We hadn't gotten that far along yet. I would say again didn't want to get the cart in front of the horse and begin to do some of that before we were before we had the funding to actually be able to carry it out. We have a pilot project with Columbia schools where there's an individual there who works with with the high schools to help students who do not necessarily want to go to a traditional university to find another pathway of post-secondary ed. As I mentioned this morning, the idea is to get something past high school. It doesn't necessarily have to be a degree and so for those students who are not interested in pursuing a four-year degree, there is a pilot project with Columbia schools to see how can we help those students who have indicated they have other interests. Well let's get you what is interesting to you and what pathway can we get you into. So it could be CTE, could be a badge, could be whatever else. So we do have a pilot underway. It's going quite well. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you gentlemen. Thank you chair. Representative Brown, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Yes, thank you Mr. Chairman. I understand you got an FTE here. You got supplies for that FTE. What what's involved in program disbursement in a program like this? I mean is that helping with the salary for these interns? Is that maybe walk me through that just a little bit? There are a lot of different ways that that money might be used. I mean in some instances, and I don't know whether that's the case here, in some instances we'll use those those funds to help the employer be able to, because often these are paid internships, those kinds of things, and so we'll help support that that salary for example. That's one way we would do it. So and in addition to the things that you're talking about in terms of those kinds of materials and things that are that students need. Because I know we have a real lack of students opportunities to work in rural Missouri for sure. I mean used to everybody could work at the grocery store, you can work for a farmer, and those things have gone away and we've lost these skills that you're talking about. So be interested to hear maybe more about a program like this and some opportunities we can do. Sure. Thank you. Representative Murray, you have an inquiry? You may proceed. And I won't rehash kind of the sentiments that have already been expressed, but just looking at the demands of like the workforce development that we need going into the future, I think this is very important. Are you all, I see you mentioned the pilot with Columbia. Have you all heard of the LEAD Center with the Raymoor Peculiar School District? I'm not familiar with that. Okay, similar concept. I think theirs is a little bit different in that it's not just primarily high school, but really partnering with the community colleges so that the students can get like college credit at the same time while building those skills. So kind of like to you know to hand in that perspective. So that's a great model. I would be interested to know like if you can elaborate on that $900,000, so would that primarily be paid for internships to supplement the cost? That's what it would primarily be used for. I mean we can get you some more detail, but that's what it would be used for primarily. Okay, and then I guess the last question that I have here on this one is just really around in order to bring this to life, have you all considered like any type of partnership models with like labor unions or the various trades to where you know you know if the ask is a million dollars for the pilot expansion, how might they be able to come to the table to help reduce the cost of it to bring this to life? Right, and we do partner with those folks at the adult level. I mean we have a lot of good working relationships with labor unions and that and so that's that's certainly a good suggestion, something we can try and explore and see if that's a possibility. Okay, and if I may add some of these programs that we talked about beginning in the high school. Again, it goes back to the point of now 65% of all jobs in Missouri require something past high school. So how do we get high school students to think about the fact that post-secondary ed is just natural. This is not scary, it's not intimidating, it's just something you're already doing. So dual credit, dual enrollment, apprenticeship, internship. If we can get high school students to be thinking about the future and ahead and get into a track, it's not as scary, it's not as intimidating. So we're always trying to find ways. We do partner with DESE. They've got a group called RootEd. There's groups that we try to work with that work in the high schools that we really do try to find these ways to get into these issues so that young Missourians are already planning ahead and that it's not a huge transition, they're just already in a pipeline. Okay, well I love that you all are even, you know, thinking in that direction and anything I can do to help support that please let me know. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Warwick, you have a inquiry, you may proceed. Just no more of a comment, but thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to speak in regards to this. Again, I think it's a very good program to be able to use. I've got in my business back home, we use BOMO Works for a lot of this type of program and it's been really good and we're pushing a lot of the trades. I'm in the trades and so it's a really good program. I'd like to see that moving forward, so I appreciate you guys putting this in there and keeping it there, so thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We'll then move on. Again, the next item is on page 198. This is workforce autism. Again, this for $250,000 provides workforce transition services, independent living skills, and skills training for the autistic population in southeast Missouri. Again, this is through the Taylor Institute, has been the contractor for the last several years. Next item is on page 203. This is our research team, Merrick, which the Commissioner referenced earlier. Again, $4.5 million. They provide a tremendous amount of both workforce development and also higher education research for us, so whenever you see the unemployment rate or the job placement rate, the hottest 10 jobs in the state, that all comes out of this particular area. A lot of their work, although they do get some general revenue, a lot of the work is funded by the Department of Labor, and so they provide that kind of information. In addition, the P20W effort that was funded, was begun last year, is also contained in this particular item. Go ahead, if you have a comment on that. I was just going to say, and also the Merrick, the statewide work they do, they also do by region, and so I would encourage each of you to go ahead and Google MERIC, look for the Missouri Economic Research Information Center, and you can find information about your region of the state, in terms of what are the trending jobs, what are the jobs in demand, looking at job postings, what are the words that are being used the most, what are the workforce preparation areas available. So there's an awful lot of good work being done by Merrick, and I don't think it's always being used at the level it could be, so I just want to put that in there. Thank you for that. Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just if you would, talk about the unexpended funds, and why that's increasing considerably as we go along here in the last few years. I guess most of that, I believe, relates to the P20W effort that was put in place last year. Again, they're in a ramp-up mode, and so they had some turnover in terms of staff that were, and they had trouble even filling some of the positions. They've been working to try and get it up and running, but I think that was really the issue with that lapse. They just weren't able to, given the time that the money was available and in the ramp-up process, it just wasn't able to be fully expended. I think, though, as we continue to build this out, we won't see that kind of a lapse taking place. I think the next one up is NDI on page 212. This was an $80,000 request. The governor did not recommend this. This would have allowed us to, and there was an FTE, would have allowed us to hire one additional researcher on the higher ed side of the House to help with kind of the expanding data needs that we're experiencing. Page 215 is the next item. This is the core of the workforce programs. Again, there's two pieces to our workforce programs. One is the administrative side that we handle, and there are some statewide programs that are part of that, but the vast majority of the federal money that we receive is passed through money to the 14, or I think there's 13 now, local workforce boards around the state, and so this money goes to them to use. It also helps fund our job centers across the state. Again, we owe a program, again, including those local workforce boards. Missouri's certified work-ready communities also comes out of this. That's the WorkKeys item that is also handled through this as well. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry on this item. You may proceed. Thanks, sir. All right, so last year I remember that you all brought us the opportunity to reduce the core 25.6 million because this particular fund has been lapsing, you know, 40, 45, 49 million dollars over the last three years, and so thank you. It's always good when the department say, hey, maybe this is a little too much. It's too much of a rarity. There's no doubt about that. However, we then further reduce the amount by 11,404,335 dollars, and I'm bleeding over into the next tab, forgive me, but they are the same thing, two sides of the same coin, and I noticed a couple of things. First off, we're a little more than halfway through the year, right, fiscal,thus far this fund has seen expenditures of 16 million forty five thousand seven twenty nine so if things continue on at the same rate you're you're looking at spending less than thirty three million dollars this year actually in and I don't know when that number was put together well it's as of February the fifth of twenty five according to y'all statistics but I'm I'm I think we're running a little ahead of that because we're concerned that we're going to run out of spending authority on this particular program it's going to run really close and you figure that the exact amount that you need is precisely to the dollar the amount that we cut from last year well I mean that's quite the coincidence wouldn't you suspect it is a coincidence yeah that's amazing we were running short and so here's how much we need exactly what you took last year well they'd less the the 25 million that you said that we no no no that's what you gave up I'm talking about what we took yeah exactly no that's what I'm saying and we took that mount and then this year that's exactly how much you need I'm you know I struggle with coincidence I understand I again I it's the same situation that I talked about with on the administrative side that additional spending authority it is although like I said we're running really close this year and I'm not sure where we're going to end up in that regard but the additional spending authority that this provides again gives the department the flexibility if there is a disaster if there is a disruption if there are federal funds that become available yeah without that spending authority that money never comes to Missouri it never gets to help our employers or employees no question no question so you know I'm reading your explanation here for instance OWD recently applied for a 10 million dollar grant from the US Economic Development and Administration the next line starts off and I think this is the most pertinent part while not awarded the funding so we're you know it's empty authority that you're asking for it is but again without that authority then it doesn't make sense for us to be able to go ask for that yeah those additional grants because we don't have the authority to spend it in many instances those are time sensitive kinds of things and if the if the timing works out right where we're applying and the legislature's in session then that's good but in many instances that's not the timing doesn't work out that way and so that's that's why we ask for that it is additional spending authority empty spending authority if you want to call it that to the penny of what we cut last year that was just the number that we want we that's amazing you guys ought to play the lottery and then you wouldn't have to ask us for money I have a I have a stack of budget but we're only about halfway done but I have a stack of budget books in my office that are filled with might could be maybe possibly I struggle with it gentlemen so I understand thank you for your for your answers Thank You mr. chair never is a long time I think at one point you said you know we'd never be able to expect to receive it and maybe there are some that are sometimes sensitive a supplemental would not suffice you know if there was an existing authority I do want to ask you just from a you know philosophical point of view I mean what would you say some would say that you know maybe the only power or one of the only powers or one of the most substantial powers certainly that the legislative branch of government has is to appropriate but there's the inverse of that as well to not appropriate the General Assembly doesn't want something to happen and so what would you say to the extent if if there's just a blanket appropriation and then subsequently a grant can be applied for and that authority existed by which to run that grant through what if come to find out the General Assembly doesn't want whatever that grant that is yet to be applied for that would be applied for that for which there be authority by which to spend maybe as a policy matter would wish to never be right how else can it be addressed but through this process and I realize from a timing and a standpoint and a efficiency standpoint there if there's not a good answer to that I at least I don't think there is but you know from our perspective I say our perspective let's say from the legislative branches perspective and if I if a legislator or if legislators writ large had that point of view which I don't think is an unreasonable one what would you say to that I mean is there any way to I don't know that there is a way to meet in the middle on that one well I guess again and I I agree with you 100% I mean the and from my perspective the the the main authority of the legislature has to do with the with the purse strings in the budget and so I understand the reluctance related to this would there be middle ground that you know we would come back to the legislature so if we applied for a grant we had this excess spending authority and then but before we would use it we could come to I don't know this committee we could come to someone and say look we want to apply for this grant it would it would be in this excess spending authority is how we would spend that and before anything goes forward again that's the way we handle the federal grant right now is nothing gets spent out of those funds until we clear it with the legislature in terms of how it's being used if if something like that could be incorporated into this maybe that would allow us the ability to feel like we could you know look for those kinds of grants and approach those but also give the legislature the comfort that well but you all have the final say about whether that goes forward or not that's just off the top of my head that's one way that might be I appreciate that and I think it's a worthwhile conversation because I understand the certainly the you know trying to be expeditious and trying to you know from a department you like you're in the executive branch you're trying to execute things right you're trying to execute it's want to make things happen right and we're over here you know is it to be or not to be right and and and so because it's a like it's one thing to ask for 10 million that we don't yet admittingly if and if this is the case like you know we don't currently have the 10 million to spend yet but we think we might could potentially get it in the future you know I mean that's not great in of itself because generally we like to make the number what it really is to be and so on so forth now maybe it comes through maybe it doesn't and I get that we're not here all the year round and so there's again this you know there's there's practicalities that come into play but that's one thing which in and of itself isn't great but then it's like there's another leap for well okay well if it was to be then like what do we spend in the 10 million on I mean that's you know why we have core description items and we ask questions because it's not enough to know that okay you want to spend a million dollars what do you want to spend it on why do you want to spend it on it you know and and obviously we can't really do that part of it but I appreciate your comments and maybe there is a way that we can you know make it all work in a way that's helpful to everybody and acceptable but those are some of the you know that perhaps our government wasn't structured by which to be efficient I don't know you know but there's these some of the things we got to work through and and I didn't intend to have that exchange with you but I appreciate it nonetheless and it is an interesting one and you all obviously aren't the only ones for which this is a consideration so I appreciate the conversation and with that I believe we can continue all right then the next item up is on page 225 this is the launch KC again this 350,000 this is a core item I provide education curriculum training access to capital and mentoring for some for support and to support and entrepreneurs if I can spit that word out up next is on page 230 and this is core programming apprenticeships this is a million dollars this was started out as five hundred thousand was increased to a million a couple of years ago it provides Missouri residents with computer programming and coding training that's free of cost to the participant and again there are this goes through a contracting process there's it's split into two so there are two vendors each receiving five hundred thousand again that's the way it was structured representative Christianson you have an inquiry you may proceed Thank You mr. chair I'm gonna ask back on 225 and then 230 but for launch KC would you be able to provide us the contract that also shows how much they get for administrative fees we can provide you with the contract certainly yes thank you and then for and you said the same thing for the computer so for actually for 230 so you said that there was two companies did one of them not expend the money is that why there was such on like big laps that's that's part of it we struggled with the RFP process it took quite a bit of time to finish the contract for the second person and so the second entity was the second entity from Springfield I do not I don't think so but I'm not sure because where were the two entities from I would have to look back and see I don't know off the top of my head yeah I would like to know the two companies of that as well okay we can do that you all right I think the next item up is on page 236 this is apprenticeship Missouri this is the core amount for that again this provides training and work experience for individuals leading to long-term employment and ensuring employers have the workers with the skill set that they need and so we partnership with a lot of different employers on this again as I said in many instances we'll provide some financial support to them in order to encourage them to do these apprentices and I again we've had a lot of good success in terms of the outcomes of these up next is the core it's page 242 so real quick on 236 well 238 I guess really itthis a new program or was this core like was this changed or you said it's been successful ongoing but it looks as though 24 is the first year and that there were that was the first year there was a separate appropriation for this we've been doing some of the work prior to that with other funding that we had but this is the first 24 is the first year was actually broken out as a freestanding item so in 24 that the and it is other or it's the federal funds the job development training fund but there was a little over three million dollars appropriated and only a hundred and thirteen thousand two hundred forty seven dollars expended is that pretty normative or is that what you expect going forward the problem is the the fund there aren't funds in the job training and partnership fund and it's sufficient to be able to cover this we had requested for the last for two years switch this over to general revenue so that we would have the actual funds there and it wasn't granted and the authority was given to you in the federal but you really don't have the federal efficient so you the need is there but the resources are lacking now and I've heard that one before too so okay I understand and you do have two point two five FTE here and so are is that what's being are those filled is that what's being yes they are those those are filled position okay so that's basically what we're doing exactly the two personnel and so what would the PSD be if that was because you've got 2.8 million there so we're not really expending anything in that regard but if you had be it a different fund source or let's say that you know the federal government just started letting it flow and somehow you know somehow some way you had the resources you think you could spend here then what would that be doing again we would be using those funds to work with employers with labor unions to again to work through this some of it is helping them get set up to do this and again we we often partner with them and we'll cover a portion of the their salaries in order to be able to make these apprenticeships more attractive to those to those individuals so that's that's primarily what it would be used for thank you representative Davidson you have something on this please proceed yeah I was just reading the the core description and it talked about Missouri having achieved this status of number three in the nation for the number of apprentices apprentices that's actually really cool that's the first I'd ever heard of that why is it that you think Missouri is number three what are your thoughts on that well I think again we've had over the past administration and then I'm going to do and I think we've had a supportive administration that's really supported working on apprenticeships we've taken a very active role in trying to promote those and working across a lot of different industries we're moving into areas where you don't normally think of as for apprenticeships so for example most people when you think of apprenticeships they think of skilled trades pipe fitters and carpenters those kinds of things but we're working on apprenticeships for teachers for example for teacher education in the health care field as well we're working we've got an apprenticeship program set up with the National Guard and so we're coming at these in different ways than would norm than a lot of people normally think of when you say we is it Jude or is it or is it like we as a state of Missouri as as people who are well I think it's I think we as a state I mean we're kind of the you know we're maybe the point of the spear but that's not all of it again I think everyone has been supportive of this there's a lot of recognition that apprenticeships are an underutilized approach for students particularly ones that may not be sure exactly what they what they want to do or aren't interested in a in a collegiate approach so I think we've just tried to again as a state we've really tried to support this particular area yeah well and I was curious because is there a place when I think of support there are two real prongs to policy making and appropriation but then obviously legislation as well and if you feel like that support has been expressed through our legislative processes or through our you know our professional registration licensing or or latitude that's been given with you know teacher preparation or whatever it might be because as I as I look at this and there are maybe other places in the book that I'm missing as you'd said the funds aren't there federally we're more or less funding the the personnel service more than anything else is that support not so much been appropriation that that support that you're talking about has been primarily through through the through the legislative process or it's been through the policy process again the commissioner earlier mentioned the governor Parson established the office of work-based learning apprenticeships and work-based learning and again that while that doesn't do anything in one sense it does raise the visibility of it it brings the partners together to have those conversations about how do we go forward with this so there's been a lot of support on that side and we've been using federal funds there's not the financial side has not been seen much support from the state okay thank you I appreciate that if I may I'd like to add just a comment or two one would be that this does go back to some of the early comments when our department was formed and being higher education and workforce development this is part of that shifting of perspective that post-secondary education is does not necessarily have to be a four-year university degree and this also talks about our partnerships with industry partners across the state and in the regions and back to the rural communities what's going on in the rural communities where can that economic development energy be started yeah and so I think we are finding that that's catching on and and we were talking earlier about advanced manufacturing at Missouri S&T and they were talking about the skills trades they need that got left behind with NAFTA so we're all catching up now to understand we've got to get back to some of that that kind of hands-on training and this is one of the things that's taken off from Missouri well and I yeah I think I think the thing that I'm I'm drawing out here and I think a good lesson for us all to learn is that policy is holistic it's not just what is appropriated it's also what is legislated or what is executed in the executive whatever that case might be and as you said financially right in terms of appropriation we're looking at a couple hundred thousand dollars being spent and invested in apprenticeship Missouri yet still we are here we are at number three in the nation and there's a really good lesson there that maybe the best thing government can do for workforce development is actually maybe not just be very involved there's a lot of really creative industrious and innovative ways in which Missourians are applying themselves and usually the state is in the way of them applying themselves and so that's what stood out to me was the fact that we're number three in the nation with you know a hundred and thirteen thousand dollars being spent I'm not sure it can be credited to that I think it's probably more credited to the policy decisions that have been made so I do appreciate the inquiry though okay I think we're ready then the next item up is on page 242 this is the core health and ag science this was a collab this is a collaboration the request department request was 2.3 million it was not recommended by the governor this would was a collaboration between Missouri Southern State University the Southern Center for Advanced Professional Studies the Missouri Biotech Association and Missouri Western State University and so they were wanting to expose K through 12 students and classroom teachers to help them understand about the work face tomorrow particularly in precision health and agriculture page 247 is our next item this is Missouri S&T project lead the way again project lead the way as a partnership between a post-secondary provider and secondary schools again trying to increase the interest and opportunities for students in in STEM fields and so this is a continuing support for that work at MS&T then next item up is a deferred maintenance again someone earlier today brought that tub subject up again that we had requested a twenty seven point one million dollar appropriation for deferred maintenance on our college and university campuses the governor did not recommend that again we continue to see the need for investment in this area to keep our campuses in working order keep the roofs in place keep the steam tunnels working those kinds of things and so while we made some progress particularly through some of the ARPA funding there's still a quite a bit of need out there and so this was an attempt to try and try and catch that situation but the governor did not recommend it. Representative Taylor you have an inquiry on this item you may proceed. Thank you sir we're talking about our state universities like Rizzo yep and I don't see what the spending had been historically but this is maybe there's never been in terms of an appropriation this is an NDI there was not been this has not been funded. How have we been supporting them in the past for maintenance and facilities? As I indicated the community colleges do have an allocation out of their core that they can spend on maintenance and repair there's never been anything like that for the four-year institutions and so it just has to come out of their regular operating budget. They have some pretty large operating and large facilities why did we think it necessary to carve out this NDI to support them? I think we felt like that this was again the the issue we've we've seen and I don't have the most current numbers but the last time we checked we had a deferred maintenance situation of about two billion dollars on our public university and college campuses and there was really no recognition of that in the budgeting process or not a specific mechanism for that and so we felt like to raise awareness about that.and to try and provide an ongoing mechanism so that those investments could be made, and we would know that they would be made, that it made sense for us to bring forward a new decision item to try and allocate a certain amount of funds each year to that process. What was the governor's feedback on this or what were the... We don't know why he did not fund this or did not recommend this for funding. Not only did he not recommend it, but it would have been different if he thought, you know, a smaller amount, but taking it to zero with no feedback, no discussion? Correct, no. How many of our institutions would this cover? I think it depends on how you count. It's about 27 if you count the community colleges. But you were saying the community colleges already have that? They do have a certain allocation. So excluding the community colleges. There's 13 counting the four campuses at University of Missouri. 13 includes the four for University of Missouri. Okay. Thank you, sir. Do you know on, so like on 254, you've got, you know, the total request, department request was $27,123,204, but the only institution that I can particularly identify as state tech, 253,628 would be their allotment. You got 22.8 million for the universities, 4 million for the community colleges, what you proposed. Were you just going to figure that out later on or is that per FTE or do you like just divide it evenly or divide by square footage or how, like what's the methodology you would, if you would have proposed to abuse? It's based, the numbers are based on a percent of their, the replacement value of the of the campuses. That was, that was information that was collected I think in 2023 and so we just took a small percentage of that to take this approach. So the colleges and universities supplied you with a number of replacement costs and you took that number and added it all together and said, all right, well University of Missouri represents 25% of all and, you know, UCM is 7%. We would have looked at what each campus had sent us and then that would be the break. We could, we can do a breakout of this. We just aggregated it for this particular purpose, but there was a specific amount for each of the institutions. You identified, yeah, if you could provide that I would appreciate that. And again, I'm a little bit, I was trying to explain it as I understood it, but if you can write down exactly what the methodology was as far as, you know, what I do to get to that math or whatever that is, I'd be curious to know that as well. Representative Chapley, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Is there anything in state law that prohibits the university systems from setting some money aside? No. So we've just never done that? Well, I think they've, I can't say that they have never done that. There's nothing in statute that says thou shalt allocate X percentage of your... No, no, no, not that requires it, that prohibits it. Oh, well then there's nothing that prohibits it. Because, I mean, there's only so many U.S. senators that you can get to rename a building after and get money for, right? Yes, there are only so many U.S. senators. And so, you know, I mean, I'm just, I'm just, was that a little too blunt? I'm sorry. So, at any rate, you know, I mean, but the reality of it is, these are cities within cities. There's tens of thousands of people in volved, and housing, and buildings, and streets, and sidewalks, and all of this stuff has a shelf life. And in cities and counties, we have to take into account that all of this is going to have to be replaced by future generations, and so we set some aside. And nobody, I mean, these are the smartest institutions we have in the whole state, one could argue. And nobody said, I wonder if we ought to set some of this back? Well, again, I don't know what everybody said. Well, I mean, they just never done it. Right. Some have been better at it than others, I would say, but in many instances, particularly in tight funding times, you do what you have to do. That roof is gonna, the roof is leaking, we're gonna have to spend our money to fix that, but it's difficult to set aside several million dollars to say, well, somewhere down the road we're gonna do that. I'm not saying that that's a bad idea or that they shouldn't do it, but it gets really difficult, particularly when funding is as tight as it's been. You bet, especially if you're trying to make sure you spend everything you can so that you can come back and ask for it again next year. All right, thanks sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Murray, you have an inquiry still, you may proceed. I think you've already addressed the inquiry that I had in regards to the list of maintenance by university, so, you know, you could provide that, that'd be okay. Representative Riggs, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A real simple question for you, and please get this to us offline, what percentage of our taxpayer-supported dormitories are 100% full and which are less than 50% full? We are looking at the demographic cliff, we have declining birth rates, we're going to have fewer students, and we're talking about all this like it's 1985, and it's not. So, if y'all could get that to me, I would appreciate it. Thank you. We'll do what we can. Representative Voss, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure that we all got copied on the information you're going to provide to the committee, specifically on deferred maintenance, and then I'd appreciate to visit with you guys offline, privately. I won't take the whole committee's time here, but I'd appreciate a side conversation on this. You bet. Yeah, I think you have it, and probably already know it, I think Kimberly O'Connor's business card is somewhere up there, but anyway, direct it to her and and she'll get it to the full committee. Thank you very much. All right, please proceed. But, I think the next item up is on page 256, that's the core community college appropriation. This is the last of the additional sheets that we provided you. Unfortunately, when we printed this, Moser's left the governor's recommendation blank, and so we obviously we wanted to correct that. Again, the request was for 178, almost 0.4 million the governor recommended continuing that core, so there was no change to the core. So, the difference is the governor did recommend it, and despite what our eyes might suggest in this book, so this is the true and authentic. That's correct. We had entered the data, for some reason it, Moser's didn't spit it out like we thought it should, and we missed it, and so the sheet that we handed out is the accurate one. I bet this made a few people's hearts skip a beat when they saw that. Representative Riggs, you have an inquiry, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and we've had this talk before, so give us the history lesson here. Why do we have this particular funding mechanism when the community colleges in a given moment are teaching 40 to 45 percent of the credit hours, yet they're getting a pittance from us? I don't understand that. If the four-year model is dead, we just haven't buried it yet. Why are we not plussing up community colleges for what they actually do, which is teaching our students? Well, again, I think we've asked for funding increases for the community colleges. Again, I don't think we would disagree that they're doing a great job in terms of educating our students, but again, we asked for a three percent increase. That'll be the next item the governor recommended 1.5. I'm just trying to struggle through here. If there is a number out there that you folks could provide to say this is what equity would look like if we're actually paying people for what they're teaching, we're not. Well, I think we're going to get there. Again, earlier we had a conversation about the the funding model and performance funding process that we've been engaged in with the legislature over the last couple of years, I guess. Time flies when you're having fun. All right, well, my next follow-up question would be, number one, how many four-year colleges and universities in this state we support with our tax dollars actually showed in enrollment growth last year? I think you're going to find two. Second question is, how many two years community colleges showed enrollment growth last year? And we're going to, you know, sorry about this, but this this thing is so skewed in a particular direction. Three percent isn't nearly enough. More like 30. So I'm not trying to lecture you folks, it's just something I see this as a systemic failure on our part as people who do budget to support that people are actually out there teaching these students. That's the community colleges. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. When you can get that to us, thank you. Representative Black, you have an inquiry, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the table that you've included on page 257, which just breaks out the allocations to the various community colleges, and we know that I think that's based on their own model to some degree. Correct. Right, which and as you were talking in response to Representative Riggs' questions, I mean again that leads us back to the consideration of the new funding model which we do have under discussion with regard to performance-based issues related to that, but regarding 257, we used to get, and I think we've received every year for each institution of higher ed community and four-year, a little data sheet with number of students. We're finalizing what we call the fact book right now.it wasn't quite ready for for primetime when we made this I'm sorry I apologize we don't have it ready but we will provide that we're gonna be getting those includes of funding per student includes fees includes a lot of basic hard data for each of the institutions and in that regard and I'm jumping a little bit here I realize I am but back to the chairs comment I started to say astonishment but that might be too much on current credit hour rates at at particular institution which I believe the book said $569 per credit hour and a little math on that at a hundred and thirty hours which I realize that's probably more than a degree requires but I believe many parents would love it if their kid could get that in a hundred and thirty hours but still work and then I looked at on the internet so you add that hundred thirty that's in the neighborhood of seventy five thousand dollars at a hundred thirty hours and then the mandatory dorm fees in your first year I mean honestly I looked on the internet and use recommends or identifies advertises thirty three thousand dollars per year for this tier one student it doesn't have the higher fees thirty three thousand dollars a year which for us old people that's astonishing but the the question I have is the national discussion on student debt and do you have recent data like last year's data not five-year-old data but what the average student debt is at each of our institutions in our community college I mean a four-year and two-year do you guys have that could you we've got some of that we can provide what we can we have we don't collect that data but there are entities that do and we can reach out and get that information I believe I think that'd be very informative to the committee so thank you thank you mr. chair the next item is then representative Lewis yes please proceed yeah thank you for being here again you know well for one it was quite a shocker when I kept having to feel these questions I've said well that's just that's just a faux Paul in the book that's not a real that's not a real problem and I'm glad to see of course that it's not that it was not someone trying to play April fools on someone but the back to the credit card our you know there is there is something to be said and I'm a big supporter of of most most of the institutions of higher education but there is a there is something to be said for if I can take my English 101 at $70 a credit hour and it cost me two hundred ten dollars or I can take it at another institution and it cost me seventeen hundred dollars that and we are in some to some extent subsidizing that you know there's there's definitely a return on your investment if you will if our job is to get people educated and get them you know ready for the for the real world that it would appear that if the more we can funnel through the least of those first two years through that that those institutions to your institutions the better off financially the state will be maybe the better off you know ultimately will be you know it's overall but financially from the state you can see that it's a more bang for your buck but at the same time if you take all those courses away from some of the larger institutions and they're using that money to help subsidize some of the other parts I mean there is there there is a there is a big trade-off but $70 a credit hour which is I think what you said was the average credit hour for the for the dual credit to enroll yeah it's really it's about the same it's not much higher is it that their regular hour yeah I would say most of them are that somewhere between that and probably a hundred dollars a credit hour right and so at least the ones that I work with you know I think I'm still the longest dual credit instructor for MACC so the if you look at those numbers you know 70 compared to you know 570 or whatever you want to say it is it does seem why aren't we putting a little bit more money and I know we've increased the a-plus right we a lot and that that's all that money is basically going to those institutions so it's that's something that we we can't overlook as a as a body here right that is something that we have to include because that money that we're putting into that a plus is going to those institutions in particular so that has to be figured in when you're doing that calculation right because ultimately we're giving it to the institution not to the kids right I mean ultimately it's going to go to them so anyway I just I do think we need to point a couple of those things out for the edification here of the body thanks yeah and again I think that's we're working really hard on the transfer area to try and smooth that transfer process so that it encouraged students to to start there if that's what they need that's what they want to do that's the fit that's what they need to do the same thing is true with dual credit dual enrollment I think the more we can focus those students early on get them involved in that not only does it save them money in terms of a tuition but it's gonna put them in the workforce that much quicker and so there are a lot of really good reasons to try and promote that and so I'm hopeful that we'll continue to see more growth in that area that we've been talking about when some of the four-year institutions and two-year institutions are doing some of the same things and if the two-year institutions are doing it cheaper and better that's great but that means we can you know that with some of the four years can focus on some things right defining our mission a little bit stronger I think that goes back into this performance funding model that we're you know maybe gonna see in a couple years you know it's not say well let's just wait for that but you know right we kind of want to say well let's just wait for that and we'll work on that in in the in the intervening time right to get ready for that but you know I'm not saying we take it away from Peter to give to Paul I'm thinking well we plus up Peter a little bit more and plus up Paul maybe just a little bit less but we still we still plus you know we still give the money all right well I think we're on the worst on the CPI increase for the community colleges we had recommended a 3% increase that 5.3 million the governor recommended 1.5 2.6 7 5 page 265 is the next item this is the tax tax refund offset authority for the community colleges 3 million dollars next item is on page 270 this is the the core item for State Technical College 9.3 million dollars there again the governor recommended that the CPI increase for that for state tech is on page 276 again we had across the board recommended a 3% increase for the institutions again the governor recommended 1.5 139 thousand for that I've got a and then there is a tax offset debt offset for increase for state tech of $2,000 as well which was recommended by the governor I'm can we does anybody I mean the CPI is 1.5 percent for everybody all the four years they've all got a debt offset or some of them do I mean that was where I was headed does anybody have any questions about any of the cores or the the cores and or the I guess NDI for any of the four years specifically or June Hein you may proceed Thank You mr. chair I just had one and and admittedly I was looking at this late at night so I could have could have missed it it looked like the Missouri State appropriation all the other ones had been consistent with the with your recommendation but it looked like Missouri State's appropriation was about 500,000 less than last year did something happen there I didn't notice that with any of the other ones so and are you talking about the core item or the core item on 301 I see Missouri State has a core of a hundred and 13 million plus some change and then when I look at what was appropriated in FY 25 it says a hundred and fourteen point four million what did what am I missing here and I didn't see that in any of the other places I don't know if there's one time money or something that was put in there and pulled out well I'm not sure again on page 303 it shows an increasing amount is a hundred and three million in 2023 110 million in 2024 and then 114 million right on on 303 but on and then 113 here's your your question yeah what's the difference but I think I can help so I agree with you I mean as I see it it was a hundred and fourteen point four million twenty five the proposed is one hundred thirteen point nine million for twenty six but if you look on 305 five hundred nine thousand five hundred was reduced out as be as a result of a one-time that's the difference okay that's what I was trying to figure out where if that was something that had been look at 305 and the middle of page there and it I believe that should should math out got it thank you thank you mr. chair absolutely is there any of the other cores representative Voss that's right I apologize you may pursue I have a question around if you were to calculate the core funding divided byenrollment you get very different numbers right and I know enrollment will ebb and flow but it looks like something changed several years ago where we may have aligned to a dollars per student type of formula and now we're not it's so can you take two minutes and educate me about why an institution that's getting less dollars per student relative to other institutions ought to feel great about the way we're administering the course well I don't know that I can answer that question but I can't explain again since the early 90s Missouri has basically pursued what was called a base plus approach to funding its higher education and so it's a percent up or percent down the variation from that has been how good are my lobbyists and so various times institutions have said wait a minute we're falling behind we need X number of dollars to catch us up and so there will be those kinds of appropriations that have occurred over times that but that's really the only variation in terms of this base plus approach gotcha that's very helpful mr. chair out sounds like I need time on your calendar thank you very much okay seeing nothing further that takes us then to what would make sense the status Oracle Society would that be appropriate or well no we need to back a couple of core items before that again 396 is where I think is the next item and that's the University of Missouri st. Louis the international collaboration this has been an ongoing appropriation 2.4 million really working with global st. Louis formerly st. Louis Israel innovation connection again to to try and attract businesses not just from Israel but from several other countries as well into the st. Louis area and and working with the University of Missouri in order to try and attract those businesses the next item is on page 402 this is a Missouri telehealth network again this this includes the show me extension for community health care echoes program then also for the Missouri telehealth network 1.9 million dollars for that core page 407 is the next one that's the spinal cord injury fund 1.5 million again supports research of Missouri and spinal cord injuries and congenital and acquired disease processes page 412 is the next one that's the Missouri kidney program 1.75 million again this program supports education and research for individuals with kidney disease and then at that point then we move over into the state historical society the state historical society core on page 417 is 4.596 million again they're directed by statute to collect preserve make accessible and publish materials pertaining to the history of the state and in the Midwest they did have three new decision items the first one was for a pay plan increase again keep in mind the employees of the Missouri State Historical Society are not they're neither state employees nor are they strict strictly University of Missouri employees and so when when the state employees get a 3% raise that doesn't automatically translate over to them and so they're asking here it's a they had originally asked for a 3.4% increase this hundred and twenty thousand the governor recommended what I've calculated to be a 2.4 percent increase of 86 200 and I don't I don't know how that number came up with that's the number that we provided there are you aware does this provide funding to allow the state historical society to give their employees 1% for every two years of service up to I could very well be that may have been how it was calculated I just I'm not sure okay I understand thank you very much they had two other and new decision items one is on page 425 this was for three new FTE that was not recommended by the governor and then on page 428 117 thousand for equipment purchases and that also is not recommended by the governor the final item is on page 431 this is the University of Missouri State Seminary Fund again this is the they earn interest on investments on that seminary fund and the 275,000 is the spending authority to draw interest and allow the institution to be able to spend those funds both on the College of Agriculture or the School of Mines and Metallurgy and with that that finishes our book. Thank you anything additional for the Missouri Department of Higher Education Workforce Workforce Development Representative Heine you have a comment or a question please proceed. Thank You Mr. Chair and quick question on the Mosier's payout what's the percentage that higher education is having to pay out for their Mosier's reimbursement? I do not know that off the top of my head I can find that out and let you know. Is it gonna pretty much be absorbed by the one and a half percent? Yeah that there's not a separate appropriation at this point to cover that. So do you think it will be more than the one and a half percent or that's what I've been told there that's gonna take either all of it all of it yeah I would guess all of it if maybe not maybe 0.5 percent more but right okay that's good to know so this could all be a wash for them right okay all right thank you thank you Mr. Chair See no further thank you that will conclude the presentation for the fiscal year 2026 budget requests for the Department of Higher Education Workforce Development. Thank you for being with us today and braving the weather and safe travels home. Committee members again thank you for your attention today not quite as long of a day today so you know that's nice right and make up for yesterday we do have the Department of Mental Health course tomorrow which are the you know books here in front of you so that's we'll take you know some amount of time obviously and wish everybody a good afternoon and we'll see you back here at 815 in the morning and with no further business coming before the committee we are adjourned.