I suppose the committee will come to order. Madam Clerk, please call the roll. Chairman Deaton, Vice Chairman Davidson, Representatives Fogel, Black, Boggs, Brown, Chappell, Christensen, Grassley, Cupps, Douglas, Hausman, Hine, Cabralow, Kimball, Lewis, Martin, Mayhew, Murray, Owen, Prouty, Riggs, Sharpe, Steinhoff, Steinmeier, Taylor Dell, Taylor Tim, Vernetti, Voss, Warwick, and Young. Good morning, everyone. Good to see everybody here on this cold winter morning. I will begin today with the Office of the State Treasurer Fiscal Year 2026 Budget Request. Mr. State Treasurer, thanks for already having assumed the witness table there, and so it looks like you're ready to go. If you have any introductory comments, we welcome those, and to the extent we don't have any opening inquiries at your discretion, please begin in your book when you're ready. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Chair and members of the committee. It is my pleasure to be in front of you today. I'm Vivek Malik, Missouri State Treasurer. Thank you for your service and your time. The Treasurer's Office had a very successful year last year, and I, along with my office, plan for many more milestones to come as I embark on my first full term as the statewide elected official. As Missouri Treasurer, my utmost responsibility is as the Chief Banking and Investment Officer of the State, ensuring steady returns and enhanced performance on investments of the people's money. With that said, I am proud to say that fiscal year to date, the Treasurer's Office has earned over $330 million on investments from the state funds. None of this would have been possible without the diligent work of my staff, specifically my investment department. The Treasurer's Office, apart from investing and managing state funds, also administers various programs, such as Mobux, which was a huge success last year as we helped many small businesses and farmers. In January of 2024, the overwhelming demand for Mobux was evident when we had to close the applications portal within just six hours. In that time, over $119 million was requested through 142 applications. This response highlighted the need for more capacity, which is why we successfully advocated for an expansion. With the support of Missouri Legislature, we increased the Mobux cap from $800 million to $1.2 billion. Thanks to the Legislature, again, on the timely decision to increase the Mobux cap, our office was able to reopen the portal last August, where we received an impressive 571 applications, totaling over $405 million in requested funds. This overwhelming interest reaffirms the vital role Mobux plays in providing financial relief, especially in times of high inflation. My office has been working diligently reviewing this record-breaking volume of applications, the largest ever submitted during a single portal period in the program's history. In unclaimed property, we have broken records in returning Missourians their unclaimed money. In 2024, we returned over $56 million, a record. The Most Scholars Program, established in August 2022 through the MESAP initiative, continues to show strong results. In the 2024-2025 school year, total donations to the program surpassed $23.4 million, representing a 41 percent increase from the previous year. Additionally, 2,677 students were awarded Most Scholars funding for eligible expenses, marking a 34 percent increase from the prior year. With the Most 529 plan, we set a target to increase deposits to the $4.5 billion mark by the end of the year and grow the number of accounts. I am happy to report that we have crossed the $4.5 billion mark with over 196,000 accounts. We have worked hard, spent our allocated budget judiciously, and maintain a lean operation. We strive to do more with less and save money for the taxpayers of this state. I am grateful to my staff for their effort they have put into making this very successful year for us. If you would like, I would like to start with the NDIs, if that is okay. The first NDI is a statewide pay plan. This is page 3, I think that is on your books, too. This NDI details the Governor's recommended statewide pay plan as applied to the State Treasurer's Office, excluding staff, for the Missouri Empowerment Scholarship Account, which is the MESAP Most Scholars Program for fiscal year 2026. This appropriation includes $150,987 to implement a time-of-service adjustment plan for full-time state employees. We fully support this recommendation and appreciate the Governor's commitment to investing in state employees. Any questions on that? Thank you. Next NDI is the MESAP Spending Authority. The NDI for MESAP statewide plan, that is on page number 8. This NDI details the Governor's recommended statewide pay plan as applied to staff for the Missouri Empowerment Scholarship Accounts Program, MESAP Most Scholars. For fiscal year 2026, the appropriation includes $11,190 to implement a time-of-service adjustment plan for full-time state employees. Again, we fully support this recommendation and appreciate the Governor's commitment to investing in state employees. Thank you. The next NDI is the MESAP Spending Authority, which is page number, I believe, 28. This Governor's recommended NDI requests increased spending authority for the Missouri Empowerment Scholarship Accounts Program, Most Scholars. This additional $50,000 in spending authority supports the program's expansion, allowing more families to access educational opportunities that meet their need. I commend Governor Kehoe for his focus on expanding educational opportunities for families in Missouri. As treasurer, I am committed to increasing awareness and participation in the Most Scholars Program. If the General Assembly approves the recommended $50 million in funding for the program, the Office of State Treasurer would be pleased to implement it as directed by the legislature. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry on this item. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Michelle, with this $50 million, do you have any idea of approximately how many additional students are going to be served by this program? It looks like we're going to have an increase in the SAT, the student adequacy target, and so I was just wondering if someone had done the calculation on that. So far as I mentioned before, we have served over 2,700 students with the program, and that is going to increase with our current response we have received, where we are at $23 million. If you take that number and multiply it by two, I would say we would be crossing close to 5,000 students with the $50 million. Has your office received any feedback at all about the program and folks been interested in it? The continuous growth of the program shows that there is a lot of interest across Missouri for this program. From the beginning, first year we raised $9 million, the second year we raised $17 million, and this year we are getting to the cap, so that shows a continued interest in that. In the Parental Satisfaction Survey, for the first two years of the program, parental satisfaction with the Moe Scholars Program has tested very highly. For the first year, 95% of parents indicated they were satisfied or very satisfied with the Moe Scholars Program. Ninety-eight percent indicated they were satisfied or very satisfied with the Moe Scholars Program for the second year. We will receive results from the third year after the end of the current school year, which will be in May. Just to let you know, we are probably going to start seeing some interest, and some folks from our public schools in our rural areas, there are a lot of kids in my district that can't participate in band, for instance.because they can't afford the instrument and those are usually pretty expensive and So this this will make up the perfect vehicle for doing those kind of things. Absolutely. So, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair Representative hi, you have an inquiry you may proceed Thank You. Mr. Chair. Good morning How are you? Very good. Thank you. I think it's morning. We've been here. It seems like we've been here a while already Okay, so I've organized my questions here in some grouping just groupings just to kind of expedite things so if I understand it we We've received twenty three point four million in or issued twenty three point four million in tax credits Is that what you're equating to the donation because you get a hundred percent Credit for your donation, correct? That is correct. And is that in 2024? That is in 2024. Okay That we had a cap with 727 we could go up to 75 million, correct As per the understanding of the treasurer's office that cap can be adjusted upwards based on a formula so The way we have interpreted that is the 75 million is the floor Yeah, so you could go up to That amount like you have room to issue more credits if you correct, yes, okay That's what I just wanted to you had you have room there Okay, so you have you pay out on the state advocacy target? so for FYI 2026 desi has set the SAT at 6770 $1,000 based on the governor's proposed foundation formula level However on your website it lists that the most scholars award amount for the academic year 2526 is $7,145 that was what should have been the target for public schools for the same Academic year. Can you clarify the reason for the discrepancy? I I Believe that is just not the updated number that we have on the website So you're saying you will update that number to match the public school SAT. That is correct. Okay All right. So then looking at the projected funding and feasibility cap In FYI 2026 in your program book. It says the goal is to award 2,300 scholarships Using the high even if I use the higher amount of the SAT That would be 16 for 16.4 million dollars. That's all we would need to cover that projected target if my math is right if I use the 7145 however with the 50 million allocated from the governor this would leave us over 33 million dollars potentially unexpended We also need to understand there is a gap when the program was started and when we can take the Disperse the scholarships, so there's a gap about seven months Technically we can take in all the donations by December and the way the program started it had A gap starting in August of 2022 because the money had to be Fronted before Even the donation would come in sure and I understand how that piece of it would work how the tax credit piece and the timing Of that one, but when you're talking about general revenue, that's automatically dropped into the budget that's what the governor is allocating 50 million in general revenue to this fund and With my math that would give you six thousand nine hundred and ninety-seven Scholarships at the even at the high SAT rate. Is it even feasible to hit that target? You The expectation is based on The publicity the program will receive and has received there will be more heightened interest So we expect that There will be a huge demand and I cannot give you an exact number today How much of that will be used? But Again, we also have to understand that this program is still it's an infancy it's the third year only and it's growing and and based on my Statement that I made how we have grown from first year to third year from going from 9 million 17 to 23 now I think you will see with the heightened publicity How much interest it will receive so we just have to wait and watch. Okay, so Speaking of that you talked about the marketing will this 50 million dollars go to the educational assistant organizations to disperse Or will it go directly to the student? That we are we'll be waiting direction from the legislature and I would not Assert upon your authority on making that decision how you want us to do that. Okay, because the way that 727 reads is that the the EA owes of the educational Organizations they can take 10% for the first $250,000 of Contributions that they receive so I didn't know if that would also include our general revenue and then 8% for the next $500,000 that they would see receiving that would be to do marketing and administrative expenses So I didn't know how much of our 50 million in general revenue would be used for that those expenses or anything at all Do you know I do not know that will be up to the legislature how you decide us to disperse this amount We will be looking for direction from you. Okay on 727 there were also several Programming requirements that were listed that needed to be on your website and it said Specifically on the treasurer's website. I'm not able to locate those items Can you direct me to them and you're referring to what items? Well, I didn't bring my whole 727 bill I mean, it's a it's an onslaught of items. Here's what I'm interested in You have the number of scholarships awarded I'd like to see broken down by family income and you can get this to me at another at some time because this is data That's being collected and I think it said even an aggregate form or it's supposed to be collected the number of scholarships awarded broken down by grade level The number of recipients who were already enrolled in a private school before receiving a scholarship the number of recipients who have IEPs The number of recipients who qualify for free or reduced reduced lunch the number of students whose tuition is fully covered by a Missouri Empowerment Scholarship and For those students whose tuition is only partially covered what percentage is paid by scholarship versus parents because I looked at the list of some of the schools that were Receiving these scholarships in 7,000 would be a drop in the bucket Yes, we can definitely get you all the data. I do not have that with me at this time Sure, and and that and I expected that that's I don't I don't need that right now however, there's a big list of items that should be on the website and like I Don't I'm no you probably didn't wish this upon your department, but like it or not. It says on the Treasurer's Department Website there's supposed to be all these reporting mechanisms from From these EEOs to your office and I believe there is a reporting requirement that we will be fulfilling now for the third year, which is the requirement from the statute the first statute that passed and the 727 continues it to be every year which will be this is the third year and we'll be providing that Okay, and then finally when I look at the list of EEOs It looks like nearly all except maybe one Appear to be parochial institutions. Can you confirm it? Is that accurate or not? That is accurate Okay, so only one it is accurate. That's correct. Okay, so all the others are parochial organizations or or work with parochial schools one EEO will work with Private not necessarily parochial schools. I am not Certain that all is this the remaining six just work with parochial or religious schools But those are affiliated themselves Have some religious affiliation, but they can work with any any private school Whether it's a religious school or not Okay, and when I just when I looked at the list of the EEOs It said some were very specific some work with Catholic schools some work with Jewish schools Some work with Christian schools, and then there was just the one that it looked like had more of just private schools in general That is a EEO based a decision we do not but they do not have any restriction that they have to work with only parochial schools any concerns that you have from a constitutional standpoint using general revenue for parochial private schools we will again leave that question for the legislature to decide and we will just Administer that administer the program as we get the directions from you. Okay, and we'll leave the cost constitutionality of this To the legal counsels when the time comes. Okay, I appreciate it. I do think we there's a lot of money here that We're using in general revenue to give to a program that was intentionally set up toto be supported by tax credits. This was not the original intention to allocate general revenue. I really think we need to be careful with our math here. We may not need all the general revenue here that's being requested in one single year to fulfill it, but that's what we'll decide as a committee. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for your inquiry, Mr. Treasurer. Representative Lewis, you have an inquiry. Inquire, you may proceed. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Appreciate you. It is, I'm gonna ask about the EAU, the Empowerment Savings Accounts and stuff, too. Did you say that we would get that data at the completion of the third year, all of the data that Representative Hine? As per the statute, the requirement to present a report with all the data compiled and processed is after 30 years. I didn't know that, that's great. You enlightened me on that, so that's good, because I do think it matters. With the 50 million, if they were new people going into private schools, then it would be a budgetary wash. If you were giving them 6,700 and they were going to private school, and we were giving them 6,700 and they were going to a public school, it'd be close to a, it wouldn't be, it'd be more or less a wash as far as budgetary concerns. But you can't know that. I know that the money that's being distributed by the EAUs, and I don't know that you have anything, I don't know if you have anything to do with this or not, but it's being distributed to the individuals by ClassWallet, right, a company that distributes the money from the EAUs to the clients, the people that are choosing to go to private schools, et cetera. ClassWallet is an intermediary contractor through which this money flows based on what the need of the student is, it's going for tuition, or it is going for any, for purchasing any equipment, or any specific online tutoring needs. So ClassWallet is just a holder of the funds. But it's allocated by the EAUs. And the EAUs are the ones that are contracting with ClassWallet, not the Treasury Department. The Treasurer's Department has a contract with ClassWallet to basically then disperse, eventually. I don't see it in here, so, I mean, is it in this budget book? The contract? Yeah. I mean, the amount that you are purchasing, I mean, you have to give ClassWallet something to do, I mean, they're not doing it for free. It's not part of the budget because the way the contract is set up, I think that is coming up for renewal as well. And the part of the fees that is collected from the donations, 4% is going to administer, for the administration of the program. And that is a contractual, I can get you the contract if you need the contract. Do you think it's 4% is used to? The 4% is used for paying the salaries of the employees who are working on the MESA program and other expenditure, administrative expenditure. Yeah, and you said another thing about the, I guess you would call it the indirect cost of the first so many hundred thousand, they could collect 10%, and then 8%, does it continue to go on? Is it all the way at 8% of the total can go into administrative costs for the EAOs? I have to get to the detail on that. Yeah. I mean, I guess I'd be kind of curious because I kind of like to see how much we're paying class wallet. And from what I hear, everyone loves it. It's working well. But I just, it seems to be getting the money to the end user really easily and quickly, which is something that doesn't usually happen in state government, right? We collect money really well, but sometimes we have a hard time giving it back to people. I'm pretty, it'd make a much more difficult time of that. But it seems like they're doing a good job. I just was, I didn't see it in the budget, and that's what I was kind of curious about. I think the reason why that is, that is also dispersed from the cost that is allocated to the EAOs, not from the STO directly. Okay. Yeah, I kind of like to see a breakdown of what the administrative costs for them, for the EAOs on the most callers, the money that you guys are getting out the door, and how much of that is going to the administrator of administering the money to see how much, what is the overhead cost? Because I think that's interesting. I will get you that information. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Representative Chapley, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good morning, Mr. Treasurer. How are you today, sir? Very good, thank you, sir. Good. So, I just have a couple of quick questions because I'm hearing about, you know, we may have an overabundance of request for authority here, especially coming out of GR. Have there been more students being applied for than there has been money to serve? That has been the case. And with the limit amount that we have, and also based on how much the EAs can raise, we receive a request from the EAs how much they are asking for allocation. And based on that, but this, again, as I mentioned, this is a new program. It also depends on how many people are aware of this. And as it is more awareness happening, we have seen the increase in the interest of people or parents moving to this program. From last year to this year, there has been 41% increase, which is a very significant increase. Certainly, and that leads me to the next question that I have. Do you anticipate that with the passage and ratification of Senate Bill 727, that you will, do you anticipate even more? Yes, we do. Seeking this out? So, what we're trying to do is we're trying to hazard a guess based on the percentages we've seen increasing year over year thus far. And that being the case, it could be significantly higher just in the next year or so. I believe so. You're correct. All right, sir. Thank you so much. Representative Steinhauf, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you. Good morning. I wanted to ask a little bit about the EAOs. I thought in Senate Bill 727, didn't it expand how many could be in our state? As far as my understanding is concerned, you can have up to 10 EAOs out of which I believe seven, not more than seven can be from one district, one congressional district. Okay, I think, I thought there was a number in there that went from six to seven. Do you think the seven was just within one district? No, what it was from the, even from the first statute, which was implemented, it always allowed up to 10 EAOs a year. These EAOs have to apply every year and renew their membership or renew their status. So it's not that once you have been allocated an EAO status, it'll continue forever. So you have to apply every year and the window opens in October for two weeks and you apply at that time. And if you're approved, you continue. The first year, there were only six. Then the second year, there was one more which applied and now it is at seven. So we still have a capacity for three more. Okay, thank you. You answered some of my other questions in there as well. So I know that, for instance, in the statute, it talks about how you are able to request background checks on the employees of these EAOs. Have you done that when they apply? There is a process, a mechanism for which they have to go through. I do not have the details of all the things that they have to as part of the application. Okay, and I think I just heard you say that they are in geographic areas. So, right, is that what you just said? Yes, so they can serve now since 727 expanded it to the whole Missouri. Right. Before that, it was only municipalities over 30,000 and the A-class counties. So now this has expanded. Now they can serve the whole Missouri. There's no restriction, but what the restriction is that not more than seven EAOs can be in one region. So if I wanted to access one of these scholarships, would I be able to go to any EAO, or would there be one that would be designated for me to go to? So the way it works is you'll have to select, the parents or child will have to select a school, which school they want to go to, and see which EAO serves that school. And so is every school, every private school in the state have access to an EAO? Or the students? Yeah, they have access, and then they have to go through the process to enroll themselves with one of the EAOs. Okay, so every school could access this through one of the EAOs, but it's not automatic. They would have to apply for it. Yes. And is there any restriction on any type of school being able to utilize these? As long as the definition of school, as it is mentioned in the statute, they satisfy that, yes. Okay, so there isn't a board that's saying, this school can have it, this school can't. It's kind of like a checklist, they've done all the things. Right. Okay, thank you, thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Representative. Representative Fogle, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. So I don't want to rehash any of the ground that we've already tread, but one of my main concerns with the privatization of education is that schools that are now getting our taxpayer dollars, or will, if this budget passes directly, get taxpayer dollars, do have the ability to discriminate against kids based on certain factors that that child might identify as, or learning ability, private schools don't have the same oversight or function the same way that our public school system does. And one of the things, so last year I went through and looked at the websites of every school who participated in the voucher program.And there were several that had families sign pledges that said that they abided by religious practices that included you know practicing only Or that had a mom and a dad that there were no Belief in homosexuality and that was reflected in the teachings of this of the private school of the Christian school and that Students who might not agree with that our families who might not agree with that didn't have a place in that school or weren't welcome in that school and I think when we look at you know being good stewards of taxpayer dollars When I when I read this budget, we're going to spend 50 We could potentially be spending 50 million dollars in general revenue to schools who wouldn't be required to educate all the 163 members of the General Assembly because Some of us had learning disabilities some of us might identify as gay some of us might have gay parents So, can you talk me through any? Concerns you might have is that feedback that your office hears from families when they're going to apply for this That maybe they really want to take this state up on this educational opportunity But there's a barrier to them being accepted to that school. Can you talk to me at all about that? Sure, so as the program is it's a school choice program It is not a replacement program for public schools public schools. Do a great job in Imparting that education which satisfies the parents needs or their particular affiliation to any particular group But for some parents if that choice is not reflected and they want a different choice This program does offer that option. So it is not a replacement program by any means so to point to your question if if a parents or If a family's needs are not met or they do not believe in something. They don't have to go to that school Yeah, they still have a public school available to them Absolutely, and I you know, I've never advocated for the elimination of private schools or for a parent's right to choose I do advocate against spending taxpayer dollars for Educational systems that wouldn't have educated me as a child growing up because I was on you know, I had a specialized learning plan at school and a lot of the private schools that now get taxpayer dollars wouldn't have accepted me as a student or wouldn't have accepted my colleagues who Are gay and I just think that is a very un-American Concept to say we are going to spend tax dollars on schools That don't educate the needs of all students and I had less heartburn about it when it was a tax credit model because it wasn't direct Tax dollars, but this is kind of the first time in our state's history that we will have Direct taxpayer dollars going to offset the cost of private education for students who are for schools It don't accept all all students and I hear what you're saying that it's a school choice program It's not intended to Be the right fit for everybody but it it seems like this the choice part is on the part of the school the school gets to choose the student not the other way around and We're you know, we've had a lot of arguments or disagreements in this Body already, but we're under funding. We're not fully funding the foundation formula to the tune of about 300 million and we're taking 50 million in general revenue to offset the cost of private education and I just When I look at this and when I think about the things that make this country the greatest country in the world it's that every child has access to a free and quality public education that does serve the needs of all students and I don't see that reflected in spending 50 million dollars of general revenue to schools that wouldn't have educated me or my colleagues So I know that you might not be able to say anything back But I wouldn't feel like I was doing my job. Well, if I didn't express those concerns again sure but I would like to say something and And very Respectfully a representative. I think the argument can go the other way as well if it's a family which is staying in a location where there is No access to other education. They believe in some religious principles and they want to send the kid to that school But they don't have the capacity Financially to do that this programs offer them that capacity So to and to just take take your argument and see look it from the other side It is also offering those families an option to send their kid to a school which would fulfill their needs and 50 million in comparison to what the state funds for the public schools is just a drop in the bucket. Yeah, it is obviously Marginally less than what we spend on public education But we I've only been here four years and we've continued to go down this path of privatizing education And I have no doubt that we're gonna stop here you know, this is now 50 million after spending 23 million in tax credits in the past years and I I don't think we're gonna stop here. I think that there's probably a goal of Some members of this body to continue down this path until we've privatized education kind of in totality because I think some people truly believe that that's the best model of education and I just Firmly do not I think that we should be investing in our public schools again that serve the needs of all kids So they're my thoughts. Thank you very much Representative Housman you have an inquiry you may proceed Good morning. How are you? Sorry I came in late I hope I'm not reiterating a question somewhere he asked but a lot of children That are qualified for these scholarships. They do have IEPs though, correct? That is correct Do you know the percentage of like first public school versus the private schools? I will have to get that number data I've been told it's pretty similar It's very similar It's pretty similar to IEPs that the kids get, you know in the public school as they do in others Again, I would not want to say something that I'm inaccurate. So I will get you the data and we can discuss that I appreciate that. Thank you Additional inquiries on this item. Do you know Mr. Treasurer, are there any of the EEOs and and again, this is a Bit of a different way of going about it and would represent an expansion of the programs There'd be more resources available and there's been some talk about that It's still relatively I don't know if it's still in its infancy, but it's it's a newer program. So it's been ramping up over time Are there are you aware? Are there any EEOs that have had to and I don't know what the right nomenclature of herbage exactly would be but if turn turn prospective families and students away would be Correct or but but you get the ideas in there otherwise qualify, but yet the resources haven't been identified yet that there haven't been able to fully support the Potential need or the the demand for the program As far as I am concerned I have not received any report of that But I'll check again with my office to see if we have received any such inquiry But so far we have not received any complaint from any parents that their Need has not been satisfied for what they have been looking for their child through these EEOs I'm not talking about those that have been awarded the scholarships I'm talking about those that maybe have been seeking out the program But haven't been able to maybe secure a scholarship does that do you understand? Yes It is my understanding that there have been EEOs that haven't been able to fully, you know meet the demand That could be a possibility, but you're not Dealing with the awarding of the scholarship directly, so you wouldn't necessarily have heard that but that is my understanding maybe you can reach out to the EEOs and You know ask if that's you know ever been true the case it is my understanding sure Mr. and we do have a mechanism where the Parents can reach out to the state treasurer's office directly if they face any problem with the EEOs that we can Then mitigate so I will check if we have received any such requests from any parents dealing with any particular EEO Okay, very good. Thank you Seeing nothing further I think we can go ahead and move to the transfer Which is you know, essentially we're talking about the same thing here But it is an accounting mechanism obviously and that is on page number 31 And this is an NDI MESAP funding transfer this item is the funding transfer for the governor's recommended increased spending authority for the Missouri Empowerment Scholarship Account program That is for 50 million dollars You Now we would If you want these were that all the NDIs that we had The rest is just our core and we can go with the core if the committee wants to hear that Are there any any questions or any inquiries from the committee about any of the particular core items they'd like to look at See none, I think if unless you have anything additional mr. Trev And I just wanted to ask about the lapse it seems pretty significant I know that when we're talking about checks, there's probably a reason that might be lapsing but I wondered wondered if you could You Hello This is my first time doing this. So I do apologize the overlaps for the outlaws is the every year we're increasing and We're trying to figure out what the actual increase is coming from. But I know the Missouri Department of Revenue is getting a lot of Checks that aren't being cashed. So every year we get a big increase in our funding for outlaws So, what is the funding used for sorry, I'm kind of I'm having trouble following we're considering outlaw is checks that are over a year old Okay, so whenever the checks are over a year old the funds going to general revenue OkayAnd then you write a second check so you need the money to cover the second check exactly if we get contact with the individuals So Department of Revenue, I'm using them as an example because they're our biggest Funds that are outlawed When they have returned checks, they don't contact the taxpayers, but when there are over a year old We do contact them to inform them that these funds are available And is that for checks from all the departments you guys handle all of those? All checks that are over a year old that the treasurer signs for so the way the process works is DOR issues a check The check is received by the not received to the person not cashed. It is returned back to the DOR the DOR keeps the check for one year and then transfer that check over to the treasurer's office at which time it is outlawed and That is the authorization we are asking through this what you're referring to a number page 47 to issue those checks again, once we have made contact with the recipient of that check Okay And that number has been increasing every year from the DOR The number of checks has been increasing the number of checks and the amount well because because it is it is Ultimately the check will have an amount on it. Okay, but It so where how are you using the 13 million? I mean you've 13 million has been the appropriation the last three years Do you use a calculation to request the 13 million or do you just stick with what you've asked for the year before? Because the lapse in general revenue in 23 was 3.5 million the lapse in 24 was 4.9 million I haven't looked down to see it looks like you're halfway through the year and you've spent 3 million this year. So it's Year by year is how many checks that we do reissue and And how many funds that how many how much money we actually do pay out each year? So it increases every year Okay It doesn't look like it has been increasing every year I would look like a big jump from 22 to 23, but This is just an authorization this is not the actual spend So in expectation that what we will be receiving. This is just an authorization that This is what it will come amount to if we do get that number and all the checks are then Returned this is what it will be. Okay Thank you We do need you to state your record for the net or state your name for the record in the microphone Thank You representative Warwick you have an inquiry on this item Okay, very good Item here see none anything additional on the treasurer's book representative Lewis you have an inquiry you may proceed Next last page about the capital improvement revolving fund for charter schools Doesn't show any usage yet. Do you have I mean, I know it's recent but and I think Didn't the governor also make another recommendation for more money for? Revolving fund for capital improvement for charter schools, but I don't see it reflected in here at all. Is it going to a different location? Yes, so last fiscal year the program was placed on the state treasurer's office by the governor's office However after further evaluation it was determined that the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education would be best suited to administer the program as The result of this budget item has been removed from the STO's budget and will instead be handled by Desi Which has the expertise and infrastructure to oversee school related funding and loan programs? So did any of this two million go out the door or all did all of it get shifted to death? Nothing was touched on that. So it basically just lapsed and it went in. So the money I think it's 10 million Isn't it that went into it? I believe it'll be a 2 million and additional 5 million So it'll be 7 million going to Desi. So it did not go it didn't revert back. It still stayed put it was in the In a fund and then in this year Correct it was it was real money. Yes and stayed in the fund and then was transferred to a fund So it's real money over that new fund. It's you know, it's actual GR It is going to go to Desi. Yes, it is. Okay. Yeah. Thank you Okay, thank you, mr. State treasurer that will conclude The budget request appreciate you being with us this morning. Thank you very much. Mr Chair and members of the committee appreciate you. Have a good day Okay, again that will conclude the fiscal year 2026 budget requests for the office of the Missouri State Treasurer Malik and we will now move to The Department of Higher Education Workforce Development Affectionately known as dude and Thank you for being with us this morning and Please Introduce yourself and provide any introductory comments that you would like and we'll see if we have any inquiries and at some point We'll get started in your budget book. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair, and it's a pleasure to be here My name is Bennett Boggs. I'm the commissioner of the Department of Higher Education and Workforce Development Beside me here is trusted deputy commissioner Leroy Wade Who has been in service to the state of Missouri for 39 years the Department of Higher Education and Workforce Development So he's a real asset to the department and and to all of Missouri and to you as a legislature I'd like to make a couple of remarks here at an opening and then hand it off to him to walk through the budget Which is his area of specialty and I'm not going to top 39 years of service to Missouri The Department of Higher Education and Workforce Development with the only department in the nation that's designed in the manner that we are That actually combines the functions of a Department of Higher Education and the state's Office of Workforce Development Along with a component that we call the Missouri Economic Research and Information Center, which is known as Merrick and that allows us to leverage the assets of post-secondary education into workforce and community and economic development and we have been able to do that and leverage in some ways very quickly in our five years of Existence and I'd like to just touch on a few of those for you The department actually has two boards. The authorizing board is the coordinating board for higher education. Excuse me Which hires the commissioner and also guides our strategic plan and and we have them overview our policies They are bipartisan by statute there are nine of them they they represent the eight congressional districts plus one at large and No more than five of the nine can be from one political party, so they really do operate in a bipartisan manner It's a very healthy board with healthy discussions. It's a pleasure to work for them along with that is the state workforce development board Which has 28 members that guide our workforce and they offer a lot of advice and work with us in terms of that They also help bring the perspectives of the regional workforce boards many in your areas And so that we can have a more coordinated and aligned and comprehensive approach to workforce preparation And let's see I'm not going to hit all of this so we can get on into What's more important in terms of walking through the budget one thing? I think we'd like for you to know we are guided by a strategic plan That was put together prior to my coming to Missouri but the goals are set for us to have 60% attainment statewide in terms of something past high school and In some kind of a credentialing degree something of that nature and 70% Full employment rate and at this time we're sitting at about fifty two point two percent of attainment Fifty-two to getting to sixty and we're at sixty three point one percent in terms of workforce participation and As you can well imagine it's those last it's that last bit. That's the hard part to get But but we're making our way there and we're still doing better than average across the nation Let's see some of the things I'd like to hit upon one thing that makes us work So well together though is having a good board that works in coordination with that But we also have good presidents at our colleges and universities Who also then understand the importance of an industry partnerships in the regions? And then also we partner up along with our sister agencies many of our programs We partner up with Desi with DED with Dohler with the Department of Corrections and others Department of Revenue and others The more that we partner up together the more we all are able to get done And that is to let you know here that by 2032 by 2032 65% of all jobs in Missouri are going to require something past high school Doesn't have to be a four-year degree, but it's got to be something if it's a badge if it's a certificate something of that nature but of those 30% does requires a four-year degree or more and that just reflects again the technological economic Changes that's going on around us So we want a skilled and prepared and motivated workforce ready to help position, Missouri to capture those jobs and to move, Missouri forward In terms of some of our practical impacts Some things will hit upon we had the creation of the Office of Apprenticeship and Work-Based Learning Which is a tremendous growth in terms of apprenticeships and internship programs? Missouri is now ranked number three in the nation number three in the nation for new and completed apprenticeships Our goal was to be competitive in the Midwest and we ended up being number three in the nation Frankly we're chasing California and Texas and based on population. You know we're just not going to we're not going to get ahead of Californiain Texas. But it's an indication, though, of the importance of having something, having young people ready for work, coming out of high school. What is it that we can do to help build those bridges? Another thing I'd like to just talk about is by our alignment and our work together as an integrated department, we're able to do a much better effort in coordinating and publicizing workforce-focused financial aid programs, which you'll hear Mr. Wade speak of here shortly. But we're able to get that more focused on workforce preparation and economic development and community development. Other things about bringing us together is our department has 23 job centers across the state. And of those 23, we now have, I think, six are located on a community college or university campus. And that's important, because then when Missourians are coming in, and we serve, by the way, 70,000 Missourians a year through our job centers, they come to the campuses. And we're able to talk about, OK, let's find you that position. But let's get you on a pathway to get the next better job. How do we help get you positioned to be able to get a better job for yourself and for your family? It also allows us to be in good contact with regional employers. What are their needs? How do our institutions help prepare that pipeline so that the region is finding the workers that they need to have? One thing I think you'll also hear from us touch on today is the work that we do in terms of the Department of Corrections and for incarcerated learners. Missouri paroles 19,000 people a year come out of incarceration into the workforce. So are they ready for work? Can they be successful? And we see that as part of our job, is to help get them ready to be positioned. States that do this well, by the way, it's a triple win. It helps the individual and their family get on their feet, get back in life, and find a good job. It helps the community and the employer, because you've now got a worker who's ready and wants to turn their life around and show that they're ready. But the third one, states that do this well see a dramatic reduction in recidivism. So much so, in the 1990s, Ohio did this really well. And they were able to cut their budget in the Department of Corrections, because they did not have as many returning individuals or repeat offenders. I'll stop there for the sake of time, but I want you to know, please, that the department is here and available to you if you have questions about higher education, about the institutions. Sometimes the world of colleges and universities is kind of confusing or whatever. Happy to meet with you and discuss whatever might be on your mind to the best of our ability. And with that, Mr. Chair, I will turn it over to my trusted deputy. Yeah, I think before we get started in the book, maybe Representative Black has some inquiries he'd like to proceed with. I think his schedule maybe has a conflict. So Representative Black, please proceed with any inquiries you'd like to accomplish at this point in time. Thank you for the courtesy, Mr. Chair, Commissioner, your distinguished colleague. I have a few questions, kind of overall questions, partially related to budget. I don't know which of you would prefer to field. I'm looking at page one of your book. It looks like that 25 budget was 1.44, and then you've got these titles here. Department working, 426. What does that mean, working? And the third column, FY 26, department working. Does that mean department request? Is that what that means? I think it is. Again, we're dealing with, just as you all, with the new mover system. And sometimes it does things and reports things in certain ways. But yes, that would be the department's request. OK. And but the governor's rec, which we see in this book, appears to be a little bit less. Well, it depends what you call a little bit, right? $33 million or so less than last year's final budget. Am I reading this correctly? Correct, yeah. That's how I would interpret that as well, yes. Something like that number. My math may be a little shaky there, $30 million or so. So can you tell me just an overall, just to kind of get this in our head, the governor's rec for the institutions of higher education appears to be about a 1.5% increase. Is that correct? That is correct, yes. And it also looks like some of the programs that we funded in the past, I'm trying to get at why that number is less this year than it was for your budget last year, as one of the points. I note, I think, that Missouri Excels is not recommended for funding this year. That is correct. But there would be continued funding for those Excels projects that were previously started, right? That is correct. And is all that included in the book, as an Excel core or something? Is that where that would be indicated? Well, again, it depends on what it is. In terms of MO Excels, again, that is typically a one-year program, the way that, if there's any remaining funds at the end of the year, the way it's been handled is those have been released. And then we monitor to ensure that they continue to be spent on the project that was approved. And is that in your budget, or is that another House Bill 17 or something, those continuation projects, those capital projects that are continuing? Capital projects are in 17, yes. OK. And this is kind of, well, before we go to that, I know you're aware, and I know you've worked really hard on this, but as a possibility of funding higher ed, separate and apart for this percentage increase across the board that we've done for years and years and years, there's another project under discussion that you've commissioned a study for that's not been reported that I like to refer to as performance funding on steroids. By that, I mean there is a distinct performance funding element in it, but there is also an element that analyzes each institution's mission and the value, not the value, and who's responsible for that mission, whether that would be the state or the local area. And then it would have factors that evaluate those things over time with a distinct performance funding element. And can you describe that in any better terms than I just did in a brief summary, and tell us where we are in the evaluation of that possible alternative funding mechanism? Thank you, Representative. I'll make an overarching remark or two, and then if you'll take some of the details. The current funding method that you use to fund the institutions, that's been in place since 1992. 1992. And if you think about the changes, economic development changes, everything that's gone on, think about other things in our world. Music now goes to Spotify. Movies, people go to Netflix. The world has changed. But our institutions get funded in the exact same way they did 30 years ago. So I think part of the project that you, as a house, have been leading is a reconsideration of what are the uses and the contemporary uses of the institutions in terms of how do they address workforce preparation and economic development across all of Missouri. And so these are great conversations that we're having. What is the responsibility of the state? What is the responsibility of the institutions? And then how are the institutions held accountable and credited for that kind of direct work? And then also, institutions are hard to change. And so how do we help residents have the incentives and have their governing boards understand the incentives that are in place to help bend the institutions into a more direct workforce and economic development? That's the overarching. And if you want to talk about some of that. Sure, I can try and add a little bit of detail to that. Again, the model that we're looking at and evaluating, again, it's a work in progress, is built around the concept of a shared responsibility. And so it looks at what does it cost to operate an institution? What do we have that, how do we support, whether it's the physical plant, are we allocating money to keep it up to date? Are we allocating money to the update of the curriculum, to professional development, those kinds of things? And again, that particular piece within the model is called fixed costs, is generally the responsibility of the state to fund that. Again, that's a state resource, a state asset. The second piece, and then what's termed variable costs, relates more to the mission of the institution and looks at what kind of programs do they offer. Again, there's a wide difference between providing a program in engineering than there is from a program in English. And so looking at institution by institution, what's their mix of programs? The second piece is it looks at their scale. I mean, how many students are they educating? How large is the entity? And the third piece is looking at what's the makeup of those students. Again, first generation students, low income students, require more resources, more support. Adults are in that same group as well. And so it takes that, puts that together, and looks at, that forms the base of what we're talking about. So that's why it's more than just performance, even though performance is built into that piece. And then the third piece is the strictly performance, looking at specific metrics. And again, this is still a process that's in place and we're still looking at. But we look at things like how many completions are there? What are they in? Are they in high demand areas? Are they getting jobs? What kinds of, and one of the things that we're wanting to look at is look at collaboration as well as the higher ed environment.is changing. We think it's continuing to be more and more important that our institutions work together, are there opportunities for them to share costs, those kinds of things. And so those are really the pieces. In terms of where we are in the process, we've just gone through over the last six months working with the interim committee and our institutions to go through in a detailed fashion and look at all the components of this particular model to be sure they're understood. And we've completed that process. Right now we're collecting updated data, the data that was in the original model is now several years old, and so we're currently in the process of collecting new data to make sure this is as current as it can be. And then we have a small technical group that's looking at that, making sure is this the right data, is it in the right place, is it operating the way we think it should. At that point then our plan is to do some dry run testing of this, put the money in that the legislature is talking about, putting in, see how it worked differently and does it work the way we want it to. And so hopefully that helps answer your question. It did, definitely. Thank you. And I'm a big advocate of the program. I think something based on actual mission and performance collaboration would be a big step forward rather than this close our eyes and stick a pin in the tail of the donkey method that we've used for years with just this across the board without evaluation of an institution, mission, or performance, or really any of these factors that could be customized to fulfill the mission of the state. And so I know there's a discussion about whether or not that could be implemented by the department just in its budget recommendations or whether a statutory authority would be required to make a shift of that magnitude. And I think the department would prefer the statutory just so you're sure that you're on solid ground with regard to that. But am I right that's an issue that is being discussed? And in the first case maybe that might be implemented next year, at least on a trial basis timetable I'm asking for now. Right. Again, I think it's hard to know exactly what the right balance is. Certainly there needs to be some underlying statutory language that creates the model and lays out the basic framework. There probably needs to be some flexibility for the department as well to react to situations and make certain kinds of decisions. So it's a shared responsibility that I would see. At this point, what we're proposing is thinking that it'll probably be fiscal year 2028 before this would actually go into implementation. And so perhaps during the next, not this session, but next session in 2026, that legislative piece would be under consideration. We would continue to look at the changes that are necessary in order to keep it running. But being sure again that we're providing the kind of information that you all need to make those decisions. Thank you both. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Lewis, you have an inquiry before we get started in the book? I would say a little bit more of a comment. I know that since we're bringing it up here, I don't know that we're going to bring it up otherwise in this book. So having been on that interim committee now for the last year. And, you know, one of the things I think we keep talking about is, I mean, is this going to drive up how much the state spends? Is it going to drive down? It's going to change how much the state spends and where they spend it. I think we could all say that. But I think we can also realize that there's maybe some duplicative services. You know, not every institution has to have, you know, whatever. I don't want to single anything out, but has to have a blank department. Not everyone has to grant a degree in such and such, because what that does is it causes, you know, greater expense. And, you know, I get this all the time. My people calls it, why is it so expensive, you know, for college? And, you know, I'm like, well, you know, we try to do things, but it is, we want to make it leaner and meaner. We've got to have, and I don't mean that in a bad way, right? We just need, we need to be, you know, able to take the funds that we have and get more done with the money we have and then invest in those things that we want to improve. Because we know that there are people, there are a lot more good jobs out there that don't require necessarily a four-year degree, but require a certificate, require those other types of things. And maybe our system is not geared exactly towards that now with some of our institutions. And yet we still need those higher degree jobs too. So when there's a balance that we have to get, we have to figure out what our mission is for some of our institutions, and some are probably going to have to change a little bit. So I know you're chomping a bit. I just wanted to point that out and go ahead and speak up on that if you would. I'll just make, if I may, just a couple of broad comments about that. One would be absolutely the remarks about partnership and collaboration. A lot of institutions will tell you right now quietly that they are set up to compete hard with each other, and they have to burn a lot of their own internal resources to fight for that last high school senior for their enrollment needs. And in some ways, competition is good. I think we all agree to that. But at some level, they're all, it's all house money. It's all taxpayer money. So somewhere in here, we do need to find that balance in terms of partnerships and collaboration. And in the way that we can reward institutions for thinking more broadly, and so that it's not about just protecting your institution. It's about serving your region. And so how do you help your region get to where it needs to be in terms of economic and workforce development? And then that even flows into other policies like transfer. So instead of making transfer hard, we need to understand, particularly as our workforce gets older, and we're talking about reskilling and upskilling, people are going to need to dip in and out of some kind of post-secondary education throughout the course of their career. And so it may be that maybe I need to take a couple of courses over there. I need to take a couple of courses over here. Let's make that easy to do because I'm trying to do my job better. And that also requires that industry partnership so that you have employers also behind that conversation helping to drive that. And that is happening in some areas of the state and some of our hospital systems and things that they need in terms of technical lab workers and things like that. So yes, this is the foundational part of it, is how to reset up the budget so that the institutions have the incentives and also get the credit for changing sometimes their perspective in terms of how do we work better together, how do we meet our regional needs, how do we meet the state needs. Okay. I think we can begin in the book. I say that. I assume you're going to give us some explanation or overview of Representative Black referenced page one, but this page one and this page one, and we've got some supplementary items here. We do, and I'll try and call those out as we go. Again, I'll go back to my comment that we're learning about movers at the same time you all are, and so sometimes there's some hiccups because of that. So these are feathered in throughout then? I will call them out. The first two, the pay plan, fund pickup, and the pay plan are the first ones, and I was going to go ahead and address those first. Please proceed. Sure. Again, these essentially reflect the governor's proposal for a retention kind of raise situation. Again, $233,000 is for the main pay plan, and then $714,000 is for the fund pickup. Again, that picks up funds for individuals that are paid out of federal funds. Those federal funds don't change based on the state change. So to that end, on the federal fund pickup side of things, am I to interpret those comments that there's no prohibition on the federal dollars to being used for compensation? Is there any sort of like administrative cap, or is it that you want to use the federal dollars for some other purpose? There's two things going on. One is there is a cap in terms of what we can spend for administrative purposes, but in terms of a particular amount related to salary, there's not. The underlying issue is that the federal funds have continued to either be flat or decline over the last five to six years. So we're basically, those are all allocated. The only way that we could provide the pay increase, for example, that the governor's recommended would be to cut services that we're providing, lay individuals off or cut services in some way. So this is the method in order to be able to pay everyone, all the state employees, regardless of where their salary comes from, you know, reflect that same increase. So there's not a single federal grant that it is that it's a some prohibition as it relates to compensation. It's purely the programmatic. That's correct, yes. Okay. Now how did you, is, like, what is the calculation? What is the methodology? Is it just simply that all the federal grants are allocated, therefore every federal grant is pick up to the extent? It isn't all of them. It depends on the circumstances. And, you know, what I would say is we, the Office of Administration reaches out to us as they work on the pay plan and asks about, you know, the allocation and then they do the calculation and that the number that's here is their calculation, not ours. Okay. My understanding is that with, and maybe I could have well misunderstood, but traditionally my understanding has been going back however many years now we've been seeing this, how many years back, because it's a fairly recent phenomenon, is it not? It is, yes. The pay plans have had any pickups. Is it three years? Is it four years for you all? Do you know? It's probably, I would say it's probably three. Again, and again, staff, everyone's certainly appreciating.of the increases that we've received, but over the last several years, they've been larger than. But my understanding has been that, specifically it relates to OA or budget and planning, is that they put out the call, you know, who needs a pickup, and then whatever they get back, then that's just, then that's the gospel truth. That they're not, that they don't have some methodology, or they're not taking it and looking at it and doing math. Maybe you know what it is, what it's on, you know, do I independently agree with this or not, or I'm gonna go talk to the federal government, see if the, you know, any kind of independent analysis or verification, they just, you know, you give them a number, and that's the number. But what is it, is that correct and true as far as you understand it in your instance, or is there some, you know, you give them a number, and then what it spits out back is a number that you've not previously seen? At that stage, we have no idea what the governor is proposing. You don't know what the pay plan is. Right, so what we do is provide, here are the, So that's what you mean as it relates to the numbers. Exactly. But as it relates to what federal grant can or can't, you provide that information. We do. And they more or less take that at face value. Correct, we would tell them, these are the staff that we need to pick up on based on the grant that they're funded from. So do you have, like, you said it's not for every grant, so can you provide the calculation or the analysis, or like, what is your criteria that you set forth? Like, do you consider lapse, or do you, like, how do, you know, do you have, like, the rules written down somewhere? Like, how would I go and come to the same, you know, conclusion independent of you, of, like, how, you know, what's the method to the madness? Right, we can certainly provide that information to you. All right, yeah, well, that'd be just fine then. Let's do that, and I think we can, so what you just overviewed is two of the loose leafs, and then, okay, somehow it didn't make it in your book. There's two more I'll pick up later on and as we go through the process. Very good, okay, thank you, continue. All right, well, again, we'll go ahead and go through the core items as well as the NDIs. I assume that's the approach you would like to take, so we'll start with page two. Yes. That's the general administration of the Department of Higher Education. Again, we do a world of things, again, identifying higher education and labor force needs, research and analysis, wage analysis, studies of the state's targeted industries, economic development. We work with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. Again, this fund does include several other things, including our out-of-state program fund, which is used to license and to pay staff that license out-of-state institutions. Up next is on page 10. That's the Grant and Scholarship Administration. Again, the department administers 10 state student financial aid programs. The largest is Access Missouri that pays around 40,000 students, about $80 million a year is distributed to those students. The smallest one is Our Kids' Chance, offered in partnership with a private scholarship provider. Last year, we paid two students in that program, and we have everything in between, but this is the 587,000 that pays the staff that administer those programs. Page 17 is next up. That's our FAFSA filing. Again, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid is really a gateway application for individuals. It really does represent the ability for them to apply for not just federal student aid, but it also impacts our state aid programs, several of them, and many times, institutional aid is also dependent on the FAFSA. In order to try and continue to grow the number of students and the percent that do this, this $75,000 authorizes and pays us to go out and do outreach work to try and reach out to populations and make sure that everyone that can and should is filling out the application. Representative Hine, you're recognized for inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good morning, how are you? Morning. Last year, there was some big snafus with FAFSA. How's it working this year? Well, we're still dealing with some of those issues. Again, we're kind of at the tail end of that. This is the year when all of that occurred. I think we've seen a lot of improvement over time. Again, you're correct. There were a lot of hiccups up front. That created a lot of problems, not just for students, but for folks like myself, administering in-state programs. It looks like for 25, 26, things are going to be much better. Again, they were able to roll that out in a much more timely fashion. It still didn't come out October 1st when it should have, but it came out the 1st of December. And there are not nearly as many problems that we saw last year. It's a much smoother process and much easier, I would say, for the individuals that are completing them. Sure, because I know it did impact enrollment, particularly in four-year institutions. Students didn't know what their financial package was going to be, so they ended up maybe not going or choosing a community college instead, which is fine, I completely understand that, but it does impact enrollment, which impacts revenue for our four-year institutions. Right, one of the examples of that is that although they were able to start filling out the applications on January 1, and in a normal year, within three to five days, we would start getting those records so we could start looking at state financial aid eligibility. And this time it was into April before we began to get those. And so we couldn't tell students, are you going to be eligible for Access Missouri, for example, because we know you filed a FAFSA, but we don't have the data yet to make that calculation. And so that has all been smoothed out, and we're getting the applications now in a timely fashion. That was just one example of the problem that was created. Thank you. I'd just like to add real quickly, one thing is, yes, FAFSA triggers our ability and the institution's abilities to calculate state aid, but also a shout-out to the institutions and their financial aid staff. A lot of folks were sprinting really hard to help us all catch up on what that was. And of course, that wasn't caused by any of us here in Missouri. No, it wasn't. I mean, it was nationwide that this was a hiccup, and other states and institutions experienced the same type of challenges that we did. Right, and here's the thing. Think about this generation. They got hit by the pandemic, and then they got hit by FAFSA. But what we want to watch is to see if we have a gap, and if these guys catch on and come back into post-secondary ed and get on those pathways. Because if they don't, then we're going to be dragging behind their whole work life. Yeah, that's a really good point. So if they did not go to some type of post-secondary education option afterwards, that's a big deal to our economy. That's right, we need to go back and get them. Yeah, that's true. And life goes on, you know, and they're making other decisions and things like that. So this is something that is very important to us. And again, part of our work here is to how do we go after the non-traditional adult learners, particularly some that have some college, no degree, and didn't finish. So these are the issues. You're touching on something that's really important. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, our next item up is NDI, the MoExcel's Workforce Initiative. Again, the department had requested 33 million for this. The governor did not recommend it. Again, this is a workforce-based program, but the governor didn't recommend continuing that program in 2026. And next up is the Corporate Proprietary Administration. Oops, sorry, excuse me. Representative Steinhoff, please proceed when ready. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I get that the governor didn't recommend it, but I also was intrigued by your explanation that you had intended for this program to be done a little differently this year. I wondered if you could just talk a minute about that. Sure. One of the issues that we've experienced with the program is the timing of it, because the applications, we've been requesting those in May and June before the budget process, and coming through, and then they don't get approved then until the end of the fiscal year and the beginning of the next fiscal year. So we've got more than 16, 18 months between the time that I said this is what we wanna do and this is what we think it will cost before the money is actually available. And so we often saw situations where costs had changed, program priorities had changed, and so our proposal was to turn this around into a little more of a normal grant program. And so we would come forward with a request for a placeholder amount, if you will. Maybe we would collect some, as we did this time, collect some preliminary information so that you would have at least some data to think about, well, these are the programs, these are the projects we might be considering. Once we saw that, yes, the governor had recommended it and taking the temperature of the legislature looked like things were gonna go well there, then we would go ahead and do a formal application process, probably in February and March, and then once the final amount was approved by the legislature, then the coordinating board would take the ranked list that comes out of that analysis process and walk down it until the money was spent. So that's how the process we proposed would work. Okay, thank you. And in the past, hasn't it been a combination of some deferred maintenance and some new build? Well, I don't know that there's been much deferred maintenance. There's probably been some that's a part of the MOEC sales, but a lot of it is expansion or renovation of existing space. I was gonna say, because renovation sometimes really is deferred maintenance, right? I remember people talking about this in previous years, and I wonder if you can clarify it for me. In statute, does it mention the state's responsibility or the institution's responsibility for budgeting deferred maintenance? It does not. The only thing that relates to maintenance for the community college is there's a set aside 10% for them to spend on maintenance and repair. It's not necessarily deferred maintenance, but to allocate the maintenance. And do we do that in the budget? Yes, we do. Is it within their core? It is within their core. Okay, do we have any requirements of the four-year institutions to budget a certain amount for? There's nothing formal in that regard, no. Because I believe last year, didn't you give us an estimate of the deferred maintenance across all these buildings? And there's an NDI in here again this year, so.Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Fogle, please proceed. Thank you, just quickly. So I know you were looking at maybe doing this slightly different this budget year. Was the conversation that we're suspending this program forever or just we're taking a temporary suspension and we'll revisit once we know what the new parameters are in subsequent fiscal years? Again, my understanding of the governor's position is that this is a pause. It's not that we would never come back to it, but again- Okay, a one-year pause. Right, there are a lot of projects in play right now. We've got the ARPA funds as well. And so there's a lot going on in that area. And so I think that was part of it. Let's work through some of that and then we can come back for the 27 budget and maybe revisit it. Okay, and that's what was communicated to our partners in higher education that this was just a one-time- Correct. Okay, great, thanks. Okay, up next is on page 26. That's the core proprietary school administration. Again, one of the responsibilities of the coordinating board and the department is the licensure of certain types of institutions to operate within the state. Many of these are for-profit institutions, but there are also some out-of-state institutions, some institutions recruiting. This $368,000 provides the support for staff and E&E for that particular function. Next up is a new decision item on page 34. This is for a CDL compliance auditor. Because the federal government is changing its requirements related to the CDL licensing, requiring institutions or entities that do that kind of training to meet the statutory requirements in their state. Again, we're anticipating a large increase in terms of the demand for these services. For example, we're estimating based on the information that we've been provided from the Federal Training Provider Registry that there could be as many as 1,200 providers that are providing this kind of training. And most of those we don't know anything about. And so this person then would be able to be dedicated to that, make sure that we're able to process those as quickly as possible. Some of them won't require licensure. Again, it'll depend on the situation, but we've got to go through the process with them in order to do that. And this position would allow us to be able to do that right now. Next is a new decision item, page 37. This was for a reengagement initiative. We had requested a little over $3 million. The governor did not recommend this. Again, this was, the commissioner had mentioned some higher ed, but no credential. This program would have created an initiative to reach out to those folks and to try and reengage them in the higher education process. Next up is the- Excuse me one moment, I'm sorry. Representative Steinhoff, please proceed. Thank you. This looks like a really great program. The $3 million, is it mainly like software programming rights to be able to search these national clearinghouses? There's some of that. There would also be some contracting that would be a part of that as well in order to bring in experts to help us identify, well, these are the right folks. I mean, there are companies out there that specialize in doing this kind of work, reengaging these folks, identifying them. And so there could also be some of that type of work that would be a part of the- I guess the reason I'm asking about that is because I wondered if it's possible to start it on a smaller scale, or is that kind of an entry amount? Well, and that's kind of where we are right now. We feel like we've kind of done what we can with what we have. We've put into place an adult learner network, have networked with a number of institutions, and to the extent that we can, help them identify best practices for supporting adult students, the kinds of needs that they have. And so we've done some work in that area, but we've kind of hit the ceiling in terms of what we're able to do with the funding that we have now. Yeah, because it makes me wonder if we were, I mean, it'd be great if we just had the funding to do it for all certifications, but maybe if we just looked at some areas where we are needing to beef up in Missouri, and maybe look at those specific things, I think about like education, if we looked at the teacher who's got- Right. Yeah, okay. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Chair. All right, up next then is the core proprietary school, this is page 40. Again, this is one of the pieces of the proprietary certification is any institution that is licensed has to post a security deposit. And then if a school closes unexpectedly or damages students, then we have the authority to call that security deposit up in order to indemnify students. But often there'll be leftover money in that fund, if we don't, we have more money than we have students make claims. This allows us to use that to collect the records from those closed schools, to preserve those, and then provide that information to students. In the program book, you'd see that we serve seven, 800 people a year that will call us up and ask for, where's my transcript? I'm getting ready to get a job, or maybe I'm going back to school. And then this provides that service. The next item up is the actual proprietary school bond. Again, this is just spending authority in case the school closes. This gives us the ability to call up those bonds and then be able to indemnify students. So this would cover probably somewhere between two and four schools closing a year. And that would be more than we would need, but we want to be sure that we have enough to be able to cover the situation. Next up is the, on page 53, is the Midwest Higher Education Compact. Again, the United States is really covered by four of these regional compacts. We're a part of the Midwest Higher Education Compact. Obviously, it requires a membership fee as a part of that, but we get a lot of services. And not just for the department, but for the state as a whole. So one thing they do is contracting for various kinds of services. And so not only can our colleges and universities piggyback on those, but also K through 12 districts. In addition, they also do a reduced tuition process, the Midwest Student Exchange Program, interstate reciprocity for distance education, and then also they do some regional policy research for us. So again, the governor recommended 122,057. The reason why that's higher than our request is after this process all got started, we were notified by the Higher Education Compact that their dues were going up. And so the governor put that additional increase in to make sure that we were paying the right amount. Up next is page 59. And I'm actually gonna interrupt you there. We will return to page 59. We've gotta go up to session now. But yeah. I wasn't watching the clock, I apologize. Not a worry, we're five minutes out, and so we're gonna meet back here upon adjournment. Thank you all. And until then, the Budget Committee stands in recess. Thank you.