continue now again with the Department of Revenue. I believe we were last on the postage increase. Yes. Does that sound right? And so I don't think there's anything on that so we should be ready to continue. Yes as we turn to page 83 we will cover the appropriated tax credits rolling stock. This is a program distribution and there are no changes to core. Okay moving on to time representative Chappell you have an inquiry please proceed on the question of tax credits. Yes. So the tax credits that are are this these are for 200,000 and current year my misreading this for 2025 is half a million. That's correct. Okay is that not showing up here is that it is that an is that a new ask or? No that's part of the appropriation and we're asking for 200 in the program distribution portion. Okay all right thank you. May continue and briefly and I didn't notice when we reconvened but for the first time representative Taylor welcome to the Budget Committee and I'm sorry there's not a larger welcoming committee but good good to have you back. You may continue. Okay moving on to page 88 port AIM zone is a program distribution then no changes to the core. Okay moving on to page 93 time zone another program distribution and again no changes to the core. Prosecuting attorney collection agency fees another program distribution and no changes to the core. County filing fees found on page 103 program distribution and no changes to the core. Motor field tax distribution another program distribution and no changes to the core. Representative Mayhew you recognize for an inquiry? So on that one and I apologize for not getting to it a little sooner but if if memory serves me correctly we have a line in here somewhere where we're using general revenue to do those collections with is that in this line in a? You mean a GR refunds or which one are you talking about? I'm talking about the motor fuel tax distribution. We have another one that's later on down in the book. Okay all right could you draw my attention to that when we get to it? Yes will do. Thank you. Okay after the motor fuel distribution we're gonna move on to page 113 where they have the emblem use fee distribution another program distribution and no changes to the core. Do you have a list of emblems for which we remit emblem authorization? I don't know that I have a list in front of me but we can definitely provide that to you. That's sufficient thank you. Okay moving on to general revenue refunds found on page 118. This is a program distribution and again no changes to the core. We are requesting an NDI for this this is GR refunds increase this is due to the CRE the governor is recommending 113.7 and other questions? I think Dan Hogg covered most of this because this was part of the supplemental as well. Okay moving on to page 125 federal and other funds this is a program distribution no changes to the core. Okay highway fund refunds a program distribution found on page 130 no changes to the core. Aviation trust fund another program distribution and no changes to the core. Page 140 motor fuel tax refunds another program distribution and no changes to the core. Is this the one that you're looking at? Representative Mayhew. Okay so not exactly what I was looking for was are we collecting are we collecting the motor fuel tax and distributing it and and we're using GR to do that work. Not I'm talking about specifically this refund this was a refund I'm assuming was created by the gas tax that was passed and so we had a I think it was 28 in FTE that was needed to do that with what I'm specifically looking for point me to wherever it's at is where the Department of Revenue has a charge to the to General Revenue associated with the collection and transfer or distribution of the of any gas tax including the constitutionally mandated one. You can get back to me on that if you don't mind yeah yeah I just I need to know what that number is if we have a number cut out for that thank you. Okay we will move on to page 145 where we have the workers compensation refunds this is a program distribution and no changes to the core. Moving on to page 150 cigarette tax refunds another program distribution and no changes to the core. Page 155 county stock insurance distribution another program distribution and no changes to the core. Offset debts with tax credits found on page 160 a program distribution and no changes to the core. Page 165 the offset transfer this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. On page 170 circuit court escrow transfer this is transfer again and no changes to the core. Debt offset distribution this is a program distribution and no changes to the core. On page 180 we have the school district trust fund transfer this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. On page 185 we have the park sales tax transfer and this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. On page 190 we are requesting a new decision item for the park sales tax transfer as an increase we are requesting twenty one twenty seven thousand four hundred and twenty three dollars. Okay moving on to page 193 soil and water sales tax transfer this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. On page 198 we have a new decision item for soil and water sales tax transfer increase this is just an increase of twenty seven thousand. Moving on to page 201 income tax checkoff transfer this is a transfer with no changes to the core. This you know FY 22 at least of the years represented on 202 was the high water mark and you know dropped fairly precipitously at least as a percentage from 23 to 24 was consistent you know so from two hundred twenty nine thousand one fifty four one sixty actual expenditures I guess there's really not much if anything to read into that this is just if people elect to to do it or not and then what amounts and it obviously can vary from year to year. Yes that's correct. Very good we can continue thank you. Okay on page 206 check off erroneous transfer this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. On page 212 we have income tax checkoff distribution this is a program distribution and no changes to the core. On page 217 we have the Department of Revenue information fund transfer this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. On page 222 the motor fuel tax transfer this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. Moving on to page 227 the Department of Revenue specialty plate transfer this is a transfer and there are no changes to the core. On page 232 the Department of Revenue legal expense fund transfer and there are no changes to the core. And that is all we have for the Department of Revenue. Back on 222 the motor fuel transfer you know we had a huge jump from FY 24 and 25 in budgeted authority from 898 to 1.53 1.053 and you know in FY 24 when it was 898 you know we we lapsed 136 million and and then we jumped in authority you know over a hundred million to the current fiscal year. Have you been looking at expenditures year-to-date and I don't know if these you know necessarily come in or the transfer on that if it's if it's you know consistent through the year it may be hard to tell but you know there's not an NDI for this but do we do we really need the 1.053 in authority I guess is my question do we think we're gonna bump right up against that for FY 25 how confident are we in that I mean I mean we're fairly confident that we pretty close to that number but it also like you said it also depends on what comes in and you don't know what you don't know until it comes in and then we know that we'll need that authority to do the transfer that's the that's what we run intoOkay and you know FY 22 I mean whoever did the math on that one they on page 223 I mean boy hit it just about exactly but we went from you know unexpended of about 1.5 to nearly a hundred and then 136 and so you know be curious to see what it is this year you know I mean the unexpended authority has growed as has grown and we've added you know authority obviously the the amount has grown as well but just curious about that so keep keep an eye on that we'll know more June 30 thank you are there any other questions for the Department of Revenue before I mean we still have State Tax Commission lotteries so we're not done quite yet but representative Taylor for the department for the actual Department of Revenue itself you may proceed yes thank you Mr. Chair appreciate being here by the way have been following along best I can offline so not to be left out in some constituent issues I've been dealing with I've had the opportunity to meet with the liaison for the department and I understand that in the future we're going to be looking at a new plate and my questions revolve around personal plates and groups my question to you though is with the future change that I know is coming with new plates and and a new perhaps a new way to take care of business are you all planning for that now in in this budget or when do you start looking forward are we perhaps looking at a cost savings that you don't have to account for in that in this budget well it's not in this budget I can tell you that there is ongoing discussions about the plates going forward but again it's not in this budget any time that we can save taxpayer money we want to do that appreciate that and so we'll be looking at everything that goes into that but I don't have any details at this juncture okay no I appreciate it yep thank you thank you mr. all right I believe we can continue now thank you appreciate the Department of Revenue being with us today and presenting their budget we have believe now have the State Tax Commission so you may please introduce yourselves and begin when you're ready Thank You mr. chairman members of the committee for the record my name is Gary Romine chairman of the Missouri State Tax Commission with me today I have Commissioner razor and Commissioner McGinnis and to my immediate left here Stacy Jacobs our office administrator just in a way of introduction are the state tax Commission is a constitutional agency charged with the responsibility of administering and oversight of the statewide property assessment program this generates 10.2 billion annually in local revenues we are the oversight agency this is local and county monies the local revenues generated fund for 2,832 taxing districts in the state of Missouri which includes public schools approximately 7.67 billion to 518 public schools this also goes to local government and other political subdivisions such as fire departments ambulance services road and bridge and community libraries we have a handout that we've also provided that gives you a little bit more description of what the STC and how it breaks down by department with that we'd be happy to answer any questions in general about the STC if not I'll turn it over to the office administrator for the actual budget correct me if I'm wrong oh we'll go to represent Mayhew but correct me if I'm wrong I believe a few years ago we added a FTE legislative liaison position am I remembering that correctly and if that's true is that position used to have the position is that positions currently filled it is filled and he would be here with us but we have a meeting today with the executive committee from the Assessors Association so we're dividing our skills and he's over attending that meeting at this time I see and who is who fills that position at present Dan Hutton very good thank you and representative Mayhew you have an inquiry please proceed well that was fortuitous thank you mr. chair that was fortuitous that you mentioned the Assessors Association and I probably don't have all the information that I need yet but I'm receiving some concerns from our assessors on this 15% increase in assessments that the State Tax Commission is mandating to the to the assessors is that am I getting some stuff wrong there is what we have done with our racial studies there are several counties across the state that are out of compliance anybody that is not within a 90 to 110 percent of the ratio study have been sent letters recommending that they raise the assessed values within their counties and they are given notice of how much they're out of compliance there's some counties at 60 percent 70 percent of in the ratio study so yes we have notified them they can only do up to 15 percent assessed values unless they give notice and then do proper inspections that's again that's the only way you can get above 15 percent but there are some counties that were recommending to go up to 15 percent more if they do the proper notification and inspections so is that something that's being discussed with the assessors today I can't imagine it wouldn't come up in casual conversation over there we've had conversation with the executive committee we do do a maintenance plan and a memorandum of understanding if they're 80% or more out of compliance which puts together a plan to get the county to within compliance as quickly as possible in their assessment values but you have you you have had do you have agreements with those on a timeline for them to do that or is this they got to have it done in one year we try to work it out where if they're 30% behind with that's not going to happen in one year so no we try to individualize the maintenance plan so that they can get into compliance without overburdening the taxpayer we got to consider the taxpayer as well as assessors resources within their office on how much they can actually raise assessed values because if they have to raise them over the 15% they have to have the manpower to give the notices and go out and do formal inspections and that can be very time-consuming on those under 15% they can generate a lot of that information through their camera system so they have the probably the resources to get there under 15% so I'm hearing complaints about unresponsiveness on some of these issues and are we going to be are we being proactive on these issues are we extending the all the resources that are available to the State Tax Commission for these folks are we doing everything we can to soften the blow is my question absolutely we're doing whatever we can to help guide the county assessor in what steps they need to do and the one thing that we found in our process is that even though they may be assessors sometimes they don't fully understand the levy setting process and just because the assessments go up 15% that does not mean the taxpayer is going to have to 15% increase in their taxes the Hancock amendments there for a reason and we need to really look at whether or not the Hancock amendment needs to be revisited and tightened up because some of the assessors complain that there's some taxing authorities not rolling back their levies as they should well there was a there's a loophole for certain taxing districts the one that most that makes the most significant difference on our taxes and yes that we need to address that somehow and any suggestions that you have because I have a bill that's similar to doing what you're talking about there but we could really use some help and some guidance on that so if someone in your office would like to get with me then we can we we do we're way past needing to address that exact problem that you're talking about and we'd love to have that conversation with you and we'll get something set up okay but I do want to make the committee understand that the auditor's office or the entity that's responsible for the levy process by statutes we're supposed to stay separate we're to do the assessment and then the auditor's office is supposed to monitor the levy setting so that they don't conflate and have too much control we don't put the Fox in charge of the hen house exactly that is absolutely the way we should maintain the entire system there's got to be the checks and balances throughout it without we got to share resources so that we know that we're on the same page on how to get 100% like and maybe the words not getting out all the way but we've got a hundred and fourteen plus the city of I mean can't imagine if that's such a big load for somebody to individually deal with and you said that it's only a small subset of those anyway that are out of compliance right it's not all hundred and fourteen count no no but we do have the largest number out of compliance and that State Tax Commission can remember in recent years I mean there's 101 or is that 25 maybe 70 60 70 so it is 70 or so okay well once again that's a significant enough it's a significant number and and we are again market values have gone up we understand that but there's some assessments that's just not taking place because assessors trying to protect their taxpayer but if there's a confidence and comfort level that the levies roll back so that CPI or 5% whichever is the highest is our less I'm sorry is the effect then right now CPI is at 2 so the highest the tax bill should go up if Hancock kicks in is 2.9 percent even if they are in that 3% category but yeah right even if they do raise assessed value by 20% and really the assessed value can be a benefit to the taxpayer because it gives a true value of what their home is worth but out of fear of the the tax liability increasing again by 20% nobody wants to see that happen so the levy settingsIt's got to be addressed seriously. 100%. And yes, and the incongruities in the levy-setting process. Exactly, yes. And thank you very much. I do hope that someone is over there discussing that with the assessors. That'll save a few phone calls to me, and I would much appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, or Mr. Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Brown, you may proceed with the inquiry, and then we'll go to Representative Chappell. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can we get a list? Can the committee get a list of those counties that are out of compliance? Is that possible? Yes, we'll get those to you. And also, what teeth do you all have? Say you tell a county 15% this year, and they don't comply. What teeth do you all have to get them to that level? We've worked up, and again, this is one of things we communicated to the Assessors Association, is that we've done a lineage of what transpires. If they're within 80%, 90%, we do a letter of concern, which discusses the deficiencies and some steps to take. If those don't progress along as good as they should, then we do a memorandum of understanding, which is a little more serious. And we even look at the fact that if they do not follow the memorandum of understanding, then we may have to withhold the quarterly maintenance funds that are allocated to the counties. That's our only hammer. The frustrating thing is we've had several counties, and even with the support of their county commissioners, say, we're not going to increase the assessed value on our people. You can keep your money. Because some of these counties, it's not a significant number anymore as it once was. A maintenance fund is at how much per parcel? $3.30 per parcel. Legislatively, it could go up as much as $7 per parcel. Those days, that's been years ago. But at $3 and change per parcel, it's not a big enough number sometimes for these counties to make that hard step. And so that's the only hammer we have right now. We understand there's a bill going through the process. It's called the hammer bill by some. It does give the state tax commission a little bit more authority on funding issues if a county doesn't follow our guidance. I appreciate that. I think one of those counties is probably mine. And I think they're about 50% maybe, or they're really way behind. So I appreciate those answers and look forward to getting that list to verify all that. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry. Please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First of all, it's good to see Commissioner McGinnis here today. It's been a while. All right, this is not your problem, what I'm about to ask about. But I'm hoping you can help provide a solution. So the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education was given the responsibility of overseeing the funneling of money for daycares and the support of children in financial situations wherein the parents couldn't afford daycare. And they adopted a new computer system over a year ago now that apparently doesn't work, and nobody can figure it out. And apparently, nobody owns a calculator. So you can't just pay the money. In Springfield, which I represent part of, there's at least one, but there are multiple. But this is an egregious example. A daycare that's owed over $100,000 by the state of Missouri in back payments came time to pay property taxes. They are short $100,000-plus in their cash flow that the full faith and credit of the state of Missouri guaranteed them they would have, and then they didn't. And so they were seven days late on paying their property taxes and now have incurred a fine, of course, for being late. Now, I've talked to Dan Hutton, and I think we've got a possible workaround. But should there be a formal appeal process at the county level that you all could support that would say, look, when something extraordinarily dumb like this happens, can we not have just a modicum of common sense? Well, we fortunately have someone on our commission that's a former collector. And I would like, if she don't mind, to answer this. Because we have constituent services as well, and there's been a few phone calls from the state about, what is the process if you're a few days and you have a legitimate reason for missing the date on getting taxes paid? So we'll turn it over to Ms. Debbie at this time. Number one, the state tax commission does not deal in collection. So we're talking beyond our authority. But as a collector, I would suggest that they make formal, have a formal meeting with the commission. Because the way that the laws are written right now. The county commission. The county. Because the collector does not have jurisdiction to waive penalties. In past administrations, they wanted to make that a felony and send us to jail if we waived a penalty, regardless of the reason. But the commissioners do have that authority in the county to make a request to the collector to waive the penalties. And then that burden falls on them as to how they can justify it. But I mean, I'm in agreement with you that it appears to be wrong. Because the state's withholding the money, and then they're going to penalize you for not paying it on time. That does seem like a direct conflict. And I think that reasonable people would be able to see that. I think where your controversy is going to come into is not necessarily the interest. It's going to be the retirement fund. Because the county retirement fund also gets a portion of that. And they would probably be the only one who would ever question it. I agree with your assessment. I bristle at the idea that people who benefit from the failure of government would oppose the correction of the failure of government. This is not a situation where the citizenry has failed. It's the government that's failed. And no citizen, no business owner, no property owner should have to suffer at the hands of the failure of government. I mean, frankly, we fought a revolution over this a couple hundred years ago. And it's outrageous to me when we are the ones who have absolutely dropped the ball. And yes, it's at the state level. It's outside of the purview of the county. But the counties are the ones that are then required to assess penalties. I think that is egregious. And so I recognize it's not specifically within your scope as the commission. But it is the commission to whom I was directed when I was going through the process. Everybody said it's not our baby. Call the commission. And so you're telling me it's not your baby either. So the baby's ugly, but we got to take it home anyway. Is that what I'm hearing? We do get these types of complaints from time to time. And we'd like to see a judicial review of some sort for the taxpayer. And right now, I think the law is not very clear at all. But the only option, and we only have known this because we have the, again, fortunate opportunity to have Ms. Debbie on our commission. But as a collector, her ability to, say, go to the county commission, then the county commission has the authority to come back to the collector and say, so I've worked alongside. She was with the county. I was with the city for several years, Commissioner McGinnis. And I respect her opinion as a practitioner of that effort. But I'm asking, do we need a legislative fix? I would say for the constituency, for the taxpayer, if we had a clear guidance on what recourse they would have would be very much appreciated. And we would support it. All right, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Commissioner, could you introduce yourself? I know you were referenced, but a reminder to everyone, the first time you yourself speak into the microphone. For those listening at home, if you could provide your name. Debbie McGinnis. Thank you. And with that, are there any more questions of a general nature? You can continue with your decision items. Very good. With that, I'll introduce Stacey Jacobs, and she will cover the book with you. Thank you. Good morning, committee members, or maybe afternoon. I don't know what time it is. I'm Stacey Jacobs, Administrative Secretary with the State Tax Commission. And our budget, continuing in Department of Revenue's budget book, begins on page 237. This is our core budget for personal service and E&E. Our total appropriation is $2.9 million for a staff of 37 employees. Our commission has six basic functions to equalize assessments. Hear taxpayer appeals on property assessments, formulate and implement statewide assessment policy, supervise local assessing officials in their assessment programs, conduct ratio studies to determine the level of assessment in each county, and the original assessment of distributable property. The State Tax Commission has four sections that carry out these constitutional and statutory duties. Administration, legal, local assistance, and original assessment all are within the core of this budget. The handout we provided you provides more information of each of those sections. On page 243, we respectfully request 10% flexibility. Our portion of the governor's pay plan, NDI, is up in Department of Revenue's portion on pages 3 through 11. But our piece of that is $140,352. Page 244 is our assessment maintenance core. This program is guided by section 137, 750 in the statutes, where the state of Missouri may provide local assessment jurisdictions up to 60% of all the costs associated with implementing their two-year program. As Chairman Romine stated, statutes allow for that reimbursement to go as high as $7 per parcel. And not to fall below $3 per parcel. This request is $11.2 million, which reimburses the counties at $3.30 per parcel.at the 2023 parcel count, which was 3.4 million parcels. Page 249 is an NDI for that program. Each year we put an NDI forth to request an updated parcel count for the 2024 parcel count. That would equate to $47,692. And that is all I have, unless the committee has any questions for us. Anything additional for the State Tax Commission? Thank you for being with us today. We appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you very much for your time. With that, we'll go to the Missouri Lottery. Thank you. Good morning, Chairman Deaton and members of the committee. My name is Lester Elder, the Executive Director for Missouri Lottery. I'm here today with our Deputy Director and Chief Financial Officer, Judy Martin, and also in the seats behind us is our Account Manager, Missy Blankenship. We're always excited to be here to present our proposed FY26 budget. I would like to talk about a few accomplishments before we go over the budget. Just some background. Missouri Lottery was established in November 6th, 1984, for the Missouri citizens voted to amend the Constitution. Ticket sales began on January 20th, 1986. Just a fun fact, I was actually at a grocery store night manager at that time frame and sold some of the first lottery tickets in 1986. Our mission is to support and help fund educational opportunities for Missouri students, support Missouri businesses, and entertain millions. Lottery is headquartered in Jefferson City with regional offices in St. Louis, Kansas City, Springfield. We have 153.5 FTEs and we're a billion dollar industry. The big takeaway is Lottery is not a general revenue agency. We operate totally on the funds generated by ticket sales. We do not use any tax dollars. 100% of our profits go to education. This comprises approximately 4% of the state's budget for education and more than 10% of what the state provides to universities and colleges. During our 39 year history, the Lottery's operating percentage has decreased from 14% to 3.6% of total sales. This is one of the lowest in the nation. In fact, the average is around six to 7% of total sales. So Missouri Lottery takes responsible gaming very seriously. We have achieved the highest industry's standard and distinction for responsible gaming through the World Lottery Association. We are one of only nine states to receive the level four certification, which shows our continuing commitment to responsible gaming. Statutory audits, Missouri Lottery is audited by the state auditor's office every two years and we also receive a independent certified public accounting firm audit annually. With this independent audit, we have received the government finance officers certificate of achievement for excellence in financial reporting for its annual comprehensive financial report for each of the last 24 years. This is a very impressive distinction and we work hard to maintain that and those reports can be found on our website. Security and risk management, Missouri Lottery is one of the first, or actually is the first US lottery to receive the World Lottery Association level two certification for security and risk management. This is the highest certification the lottery can obtain and we were very proud to be able to be the first to get that. Some highlights for FY24. FY24, our total sales were 1.74 billion. This was the fourth highest in lottery's 39 year history. In fact, our last four years have been the highest top four years in lottery history. Transfers to education, FY24, we transferred 390 million to education. This was the third highest year in lottery's history. The total transfers to the state for public education for lottery have now surpassed $8.4 billion to date. Just a fun fact, last year, calendar year, we had 45 millionaires in Missouri created and the year before we had 45 millionaires, so that's pretty impressive. Sales to date for FY25 through February 1 of 2025 are 1.003 billion. The lottery estimates its transfer goals based on an average of the last five years. Actual cash transfers plus 1% and our FY25 agency goal was 388.4 million. With seven months of FY25 complete, transfers to education are expected to fall short of our lottery calculated transfer goal. Current projections estimate the total transfer for FY25 to be 362 million, which is 6.8% behind our goal and actually 15.8% behind the state mandate of 430 million. I will point out that if we reach this 362 million, that would be our fourth highest lottery transfer in history. I'll be happy to answer any questions before I turn it over to our Deputy Director, Judy Martin, to go over our budget. If not, Judy, I'll turn it over to you. Thank you, Lester. Judy Martin, Deputy Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Missouri Lottery. Lottery's budget begins on page 251 of Revenue's book and we are included in their new DI for the pay plan on page three and our portion is $595,000. On page 251 is our core operating budget, which includes personal service dollars of $9.1 million and E&E and program specific distribution of $56.6 million with 153.5 FTE and there were no changes to our core budget. Our next core, I'm sorry, our flexibility request is on page 258. We're requesting 10% flexibility between personal services, E&E, vendor costs and poll tab costs. We have a new decision item on page 259. The department requested $1.6 million. The governor recommended $3 million and this is for our lottery vendor payments, which are percentage of lottery ticket sales and these requests will reduce or eliminate the dollar amount necessary to be requested through the supplemental budget process. Representative Chappell, you recognize for an inquiry? Thank you, sir. So, why the disparity between what you all are requesting and what the governor is recommending? What's the thought process there? Our request is based on what we actually needed last year, what we requested and received last year in the supplemental and used in the supplemental. The governor gave us a little extra to avoid the need to request the supplemental and I think he understands that sometimes it's difficult to predict the high jackpots because when we do have high jackpots, our vendor costs increase accordingly. No question. I mean, it's hard to predict. That's why, you know, it's a tax on people who can't do math in all fairness. However, the BLTs, the slot machines that are found in every gas station around the state, it seems. Have those not impacted the sales of lottery tickets? So, there's been a couple things that have really impacted the sale of lottery tickets this year. One is we have not had a high Powerball jackpot. Nationwide, the Powerball sales are down 61.7%. And, you know, typically when the jackpots get 500 million and above, the news media picks it up and sales skyrocket and we haven't had a jackpot over 400 million for Powerball this year. So, that's really affected our sales greatly this year. The gray machines that you're mentioning, they have definitely affected our pull tab machines. We have authority to put 500 pull tab machines into organizations. When I started in 2022, we were averaging around 460 to 470 machines out there in the field. We are now down to 412 and each time that they're removed, we're told by the licensee, the retailer, that they're making room for the gray machines. So, those have definitely affected our pull tab machines. As far as our lottery sales themselves, there is really no way to study the impact because no one knows really how many machines are out there, how much money is going in, how much is diverted from our sales to those machines. Right. But seeing increases in requests, in authority, when sales nationally are down 61% and we have the, as you call them, gray machines in the state, it just seems a little counterintuitive. So, the increase in the authority is what we're asking for. It's not actual dollars. Yeah. You know, it's really hard to predict the jackpots. We have five more months left in this fiscal year and if we have some huge jackpots, our sales may flip-flop and we may be on the plus side. We don't want to be in a situation in May where we can't pay our vendor because we have a high jackpot. And that's why, you know, we always go through supplemental to get that. But I know the chairman and I talked last year about why don't we increase the core so we avoid that issue if you have the authority, if you do have a good year and jackpots hit. So, and I think that's where we're at trying to ask for the 1.6 and that's where the governor's office is at is like, well, let's...you know let's look for some expansion and if you know let's change the core once instead of doing it every year asking for the core to be increased. All right thank you. Our next core item is on page 261 which is our prizes core. The governor recommended and the department requested 200.3 million dollars. On that can you help me understand a little bit as it relates to the prizes. I believe the Constitution has is it a 45% requirement as it relates to ticket sales that have to be going towards prizes. In actuality what percentage does go to prizes? About 68% goes to prizes. And I don't know that I've really ever asked this or thought about this per se but practically speaking as it relates to how it works and not that I know how a casino or a slot machine works but you know I know that I'm pretty sure they can dial it in you know as in it's gonna pay out 99 cents on the dollar or 98 or 90 or 85 and there's you know oftentimes with the casinos I think legal requirements if it has to pay out so much not so dissimilar to the Constitution here mandates at least 45 percent of ticket sales so 45 cents on every you know dollar ticket sales and so you said it's about 68 and I'm maybe changing a little bit year to year is that I mean I guess we have to know right and they're all you track the tickets and I mean you don't know who buys the winner and maybe where it goes and I forget that's all been explained to me and we don't need to go into that but I mean you more or less on the computer can you know you know ahead of time what it's gonna be as it relates to prizes right like you can kind of dial that in. Yes it's based on the game it's based on the prize structure of the game Mega Millions and Powerball our multinational games are our most profitable games so their price percentage is lower our scratchers tickets have a higher percentage and that's based on the the cost of the ticket we have a $50 scratchers ticket those prizes there's more prizes in that game it's got a higher price structure than the $1 ticket. You First established and there was a few lotteries that didn't want to play with Powerball State so they they developed their own multi-state game there's ten states that's called the Mega Millions Consortium those ten states regulate that Mega Millions game that Mega Millions is actually changing in April they're going to go to a $5 game instead of a $2 game we have no control of that we have control of whether we offer the game for sale in our portfolio or not and their methodology for that is that they're going to add the multipliers in the game and it's going to increase the jackpots which will drive sales so we don't have a whole lot of say I mean I have we have one vote out of 39 for the Powerball but you're very persuasive from well I'm glad experience I feel like you probably I wasn't real persuasive with her with her advertising budget but we had some good discussion so but it but you know in long story short and and to your point I have been persuasive enough to be able to get on the executive board for muscle which is about 10 members so we do have some say over Powerball but we don't have any say over the but on the state games we do control the state games we we look at the scratchers the the vendor will provide us some some price structures we look at those we approve those some games have a higher profitability some games don't the pull tab machines are very similar to the price payouts on the casinos there are 90% payouts so there's not much profitability in those machines but I think I see where you're going is is we can we can look at that price payout and try to play with that number and and and believe or not I've already asked our staff to look at that and and let's look at some other lotteries and see there's a danger of if you if you lower that down to where people aren't winning they're not going to play then your sales are going to go down then you're going to lose so the industry standards pretty well around 66 to 70 percent price payout on lotteries yeah I mean you do see where I'm going and that's the thought I mean I would think I don't know I wonder you know I'm kind of curious I would be curious to see how other states are are doing it and you know I certainly wouldn't to the extent you have any advertising I wouldn't go around saying we're lowering the payout but are people really gonna figure that out and get in tune to that I mean you know most of them are losers as it is and they're playing and they're still playing I mean I saw specs long as the game is fair and so on so forth and and are those those you're telling me so it's sure I assume it's public is that you know if I'm a big player of the lottery and I want to figure out what's what are the best odds like can I go to your website and figure out like what the payout structure is for the various games yes sir absolutely in fact when you go to our website and there are people that that do this each one of our scratcher games it'll tell you when the games came out how many prizes are left there there are in fact there's a group called the Black Swan I think they're either Harvard or Yale graduates that they study lotteries public information and we'll try to find games that have been out there but they're still good prizes their odds they feel their odds are better and they'll go out and buy the entire remaining stock they did that in Texas last year there was a an in state lottery game and the the jackpot it reached 96 million the odds of winning it were 1 in 36 million and the cash payout was 56 million so this group bought 99% of the combinations for that draw and actually won the jackpot and you know you've got to have a pretty big bankroll to go out and spend 36 million dollars to buy tickets but there are people that look at those statistics and our statistics are public and you can go and look at any game we have and see what the price payout is and how many games are left and play with your odds yeah well I appreciate the discussion and sounds like you're already doing it would ask you to look at that structure I mean it I mean there's got to be you know some kind of a laugher curve there that's similar to taxation you know right like at some point we could maybe lower the payout and if sales don't increase then you know it's more revenue to the in this case education but I recognize there I mean we have a constitutional limit but even and you know whether it's 45% at some point it doesn't work but where is that magic and that's probably it's maybe more art than science but appreciate the discussion representative Warwick you just a quick question on those payouts so does it matter if they on some of these if they take the grand total at once or if they the lump sum I think is what they do or is that only on those bigger options for the mega millions and the Powerball or does that happen on some of the smaller I'll try to address your your answer and then I'll let my chief financial officer just she's a money person but so you know like the the draw games and things to pay odds you know there's two options you can take you can take the annuities where you can take you know you know installments what what we do is when when someone wins we'll first do the the debt offset to make sure that all their taxes are paid and all their child supports paid and we'll withhold all that money and then there's a you know a cash payout to where if they take that it's lowered we'll issue the check but do you want to explain the other portion Judy so the the games that have an annuity option are the multi-state games the Powerball and mega millions are in state lotto and there are a few scratchers games that also have an annuity option and it doesn't affect the prize pad of those games because the lump sum option is the cost that that the lottery would invest in an annuity if the player chose that annuity okay so that then doesn't really affect the actual percentage correct prizes on that all right very good thank you thank thank you mr. chair okay I think we can continue to the next decision item I believe 266 the core item in this case so 266 is our core transfer for operations this transfer funds our operations that we talked about on previous pages and the governor's recommended is is equal to the department request page 271 is the transfer for operations increase which mirrors what we what we requested back on the lottery vendor payment line the lottery requested 1.6 million dollars the governor wrecked it recommended three million dollars and this just gives us the authority to transfer that money over for operations and our final core item is page 273 this is our transfer to the lottery proceeds fund which is the transfer to education the lottery requested three hundred and ninety three point six million dollars which is based on five-year actual transfers plus 1% the governor recommended four hundred and thirty million dollars we're good any additional questions or inquiries for the Missouri lottery very good thank you for being with us today really appreciate talking with you all and mr. chairman I'll try to get with you a little bit further on our discussion about the price payout yeah appreciate an update on that as you look at that further so it's an interesting discussion that will conclude the budget presentation for the Missouri lottery which concludes the budget presentation for the Missouri Department of Revenue and all thosethose agencies and divisions contained therein. I apologize for not making the committee previously aware. I've kind of forgotten myself. But the Missouri Department of Transportation has some obligations, and they brought this to my attention a week or so ago and asked if it would be all right if they did not commence. Of course, I didn't know. For all I knew, we'd go right up to that point in time, but that they not commence their budget presentation until 2 p.m. And I told them that I would grant that request so long as they understood that we wouldn't go any faster than we otherwise would, and we'd just be here however long we needed to be. So, so long as they were agreeable to those terms, I was willing and happy to accommodate their request. And so having said that, we will, as you can see, they're not with us and won't be here until the agreed upon time of 2 p.m. And so we will, therefore, stand in recess until 2 p.m. this day.