minutes to go close this situation here. Good morning, everyone, and we'll go in the, just for everyone's edification, we'll go in the order of the hearing notice today, and so we'll begin with, we will begin with the Missouri National Guard. Thank you for being with us, and so please feel free to make any introductions and of your team if you'd like, and any opening comments you might have, and we may begin in the book when you're ready. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll start by letting the team introduce themselves, so I'll start with you, Mr. Chairman. So good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, I am Brigadier General Charlie Hausman, I'm the acting Adjutant General for the Missouri National Guard, having assumed command from General Compton on February 1st. I'm proud to be in this role, I look forward to my upcoming confirmation hearing. We wish General Compton and his family all the best as they depart on their next assignment to Germany. The Missouri National Guard is unique in that we have both federal and state missions. We fight and win our nation's wars, and when called upon by Governor Kehoe, we protect the lives and property of Missouri citizens. The Missouri National Guard is predominantly federally funded. We received over $500 million in federal funds last year. The economic benefits that occur through our military and civilian pay and allowances, including goods and services and capital investments in our facilities, this money expended through the community-based organization turns over multiple times in every segment of the state economy. A multiplier of 1.8 corresponds to a nearly $1 billion economic impact that your support of our Missouri National Guard provides to Missouri. We're a people-first organization, and therefore our top priority is our members. We're honored to be here representing your National Guard, consisting of over 12,000 soldiers, airmen, and civilian employees who live and work in every county in our state. Of those 12,000 members, we employ 2,700 of them in a full-time status, either as an active-duty soldier or airman, federal technician, or a state employee. This past year, your soldiers and airmen trained our 65 armories, readiness centers, and training sites across Missouri. Our readiness build, which this budget supports, ensures that we can accomplish missions here at home when disaster strikes Missouri, missions like response to recent winter storms, floods, tornadoes, and civil support to authorities to ensure public order. Our greatest readiness builders are our participation in large-scale training events and providing support to federal missions around the world. In 2024, we had our airmen participate in overseas training exercises in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Australia. Our Army soldiers took part in five large-scale exercises at various locations across the United States, as well as Panama and Germany. Additionally, we deployed over 620 members in support of six operational missions overseas and along our southwest border. We will deploy another 337 members to perform similar missions in 2025. In addition to our overseas missions, we have federally assigned domestic response missions. One of our missions is our Joint Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team. This team works behind the scenes at most large public events, such as the PGA Charity in St. Louis, the Kansas City Chiefs AFC Divisional and Championship Games, and other events. Our members are using unique equipment to identify threats and advise and assist local law enforcement with protecting our citizens from potential terrorist attacks. On a more local level, our counter-drug program has partnered with civilian law enforcement agencies across the state since the early 1990s to provide unique National Guard capabilities to assist in combating the illicit drug epidemic that affects so many of our communities. In 2024, we provided 24 embedded criminal analysts and provided aviation support to over 25 agencies, resulting in the seizure of over $80 million in illicit drugs, money, and property. Both of these programs provide our members with experience that will help build readiness throughout our formations. You have a very capable National Guard, and we're always striving to transform and make ourselves better. One great example is our Aviation Classification and Repair Depot, known as an AVCRAD, which is based at the Springfield Airport. This regional facility services 14 states and is one of only four of those types of units in the nation. It uses cutting-edge technology to repair, rather than replace, aircraft components. This results in a replacement cost avoidance of roughly $95 million a year for the U.S. Army. The AVCRAD also funds 120 state employees through federal pass-through dollars. This facility is just one part of the almost $505 million in federal funding that the Missouri National Guard brings to the state annually. Your support for our budget ensures our ability to meet our dual mission that provides for the safety and security of Missouri citizens. We thank you for your time and support, and this morning I have Mr. Nick Humphrey with me. Nick is our Deputy Director and provides budget oversight of our state funds for the Missouri National Guard. So unless you have any questions for me, I'll turn it over to Mr. Humphrey to talk to our 2025 budget requests. Thank you for the introduction, for the comments, any inquiries for the General? Representative Owen, you may proceed with the inquiry. Thank you. General, when we were visiting during the budget process last year, we got to talking about your activities at the southern border. Are we still engaged down there, or because of the new administration, have other people stepped in and taken over, or have we moved out? So we worked the southwest border mission on a fairly normal cycle, so today we do not have anybody at the southwest border. However, in the future years, we do anticipate rotating more folks through there. Okay, thank you. Any additional inquiries, comments, opening inquiries of a general nature before we get into the book? I will just maybe a quick follow-up on that. And I think there's still active funding for, I guess, a state mission, not for federalized, for the in-support Operation Lone Star, Texas. That has concluded, is that correct, that we're, I mean, you said as much that we have nobody down there, federal or state mission, but that for, I guess, now is concluded. Is that correct? That is correct. Thank you. Okay. I think we're ready to begin the book. Again, I'm Nick Humphrey with Missouri National Guard. I'll start, everyone, on page three. This will be the governor's statewide pay plan. Also, you should have a separate sheet on your desk. This is a page that we just missed. This is the governor's recommendation for the Adjutant General's pay increase. Next, Mr. Humphrey, on the supplement there for the Adjutant General's salary increase, is that, I mean, it says there's a little bit of detail and information provided here, I guess, as it relates to the current salary, that it is below, you know, other state department directors and below other, you know, Adjutant Generals. Does this bring it to, or would this bring it to what the Adjutant Generals, I don't know if, I guess it's not the same state by state, but what those around us are making or a federal counterpart for, I guess, a Brigadier General, what is, do you know by chance if this, where this brings, does it meet or is it still below? Do you have? Yeah. So this would actually kind of fix a problem on two fronts. It both brings it in line with other Adjutant Generals and with other state departments. So the administrationwhen they did the pay raises for the department directors. That happened like about five days before we actually officially became a department, so the Adjutant General was the only department director that did not get a raise at that time. So that's why there's such a huge discrepancy now and this would fix that. Thank you. You may continue. Next page 10 is the Adjutant General Administration Corps. Next is NDI. This is a fiscal accountability staff request. This would have been for three FTEs. This was not recommended by the governor. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Yeah, reading the detail on this, it seemed like it's a must-have thing. So is the is the duty being transferred over to someone else? Is it being done by some other department? So why, I mean, the way it looks here, it looks like we got to have one. So can you comment on that, Nick? So I could kind of run through the three. So one of the three I don't believe we need anymore. We asked for that person because one of our fiscal folks had been basically tasked to the movers system for a while. We finally got that person back, so I don't think we need that FTE anymore. The FTE that you're talking about, we are gonna have to somehow absorb, we're gonna have to task somebody with it because the the federal person that's doing it now is going away, that's being taken away from us. So somehow we'll have to figure that out. And then the third FTE is for an internal auditor. You know, you can see from our book that we're taking a huge amount of federal dollars that it's being filtered through us, which is great, but you know, we think it's important to make sure that we always stay in compliance so we continue to get those dollars and maybe even get more dollars. So that's why we asked for the internal auditor to be able to keep up with that. And so that because that federal position is going away, do we still keep that individual who was doing that or was that a federal employee? It's a federal employee and they're just, they've been, they're being moved to other tasks. So did we cross-train somebody into that position in anticipation or is this something we're scrambling to try to figure out what we're gonna do? We're in the process of trying to cross-train somebody now, but as you mentioned, I mean that person has a job now, so we're trying to figure out how to shuffle duties around. But at the end of the day, we are gonna have to take this on. We don't have any choice about it. So the person that we're thinking about doing this, did they have enough contact with that federal person in order to be able to basically know exactly what it was they were doing so they could pick up and go with it or is it something we've got to send them somewhere to get training on? No, the federal person is still in-house. They're just getting reassigned to other duties, so there is still cross-training going on today. That federal person who was in charge of this, are they going to remain in your building? As far as I know. Oh, so they would be available for questions assuming they wanted to. Yes, sir. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So on that, they, and I was curious, I was thinking when are they departing, but they're staying, staying in, I guess, in a sense where they are. They're just have, will have different duties. Right. And when did they, have they already assumed those other duties as in they're now no longer doing this, filling these, this role currently or when do they stop fulfilling this role? It's been a kind of a gradual process and so we've kind of shifted those duties kind of gradually, so we're still in the process of getting those, everything handed over. I see. Any additional questions on this item? Okay. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see there, you may be able to proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to make sure I understood what you were saying. It sounds like originally you asked for the three FTE and you probably would still love to have one, but you feel like you've taken care of the other two within your FTE now, is that correct? The one, we do not need any longer. The one that we had tasked to the movers program, we don't believe. The, the other two, you know, obviously we're still going to have to take on those duties of that grant officer and obviously we, we think that a internal auditor would help us in the future to make sure that we continue to get those federal dollars, but we support the governor's recommendations. Right, right, and I, and I agree with the representative's comments about how when you read this description, when you start talking about state financial integrity, that's some important stuff, so thank you for clarifying. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll move on to page 20. This was an NDI for a bill from OAITSD for Microsoft 365. It was not government, governor recommended and I believe this has been worked out between OA budget and planning and OAIT, so we, I don't believe we need that any longer. So, and I've seen this in some other department budgets and it was, and so far the explanation has been the same, that we thought we would need this, but you know, now it's, you know, gonna be handled by OA, but I just want to make sure I understand, because we, I know that we had, and it was, you know, expressed by office administration, you know, how critical this was for state government, that, you know, we have to have this and that we don't have the money for it elsewhere, for the consolidated agencies, that for Microsoft 365, and it was in the, I forget exactly the new decision item, but for the, you know, whole of the consolidated state government, it was many millions of dollars that we did ultimately fund, and my thought on that was, if we were doing it in that sense, that then it would be provided, you know, to the, to the agencies and the state employees, there, you're not being, you're not being billed for this, are you, as far as your understanding, or that's not going to be the arrangement, and therefore you, you wouldn't need this, this money, like there's none of your funds that are being tapped for Microsoft 365, is that correct? So, so we were billed, and then that's why we requested it, you know, we were sent a bill, we said, hey, we don't have the money for this, we didn't have this in our budget, and they said, well, we'll cover it this year, but you'll have to pay for it next year, so that's why we included it in our NDI list, actually it was number two in our NDI list, but then once it was not recommended by the governor, we went back to budget and planning and said, hey, we already got a bill, how are we going to pay that, and budget and planning said, well, we're working with IT, we're going to put that money in, I believe it's House Bill 5, so it, to your, answer your question, it is our understanding that we will not receive a bill for this, that they've actually taken care of the, the, this cost in a different House bill. Thank you, appreciate that explanation, that's helpful, we can continue, thank you. Next is page 23, this is for state active duty, and it was recommended by the governor. Next is page 26, this is for a public relations specialist, this was a NDI and it was not recommended by the governor. Next on page 29 is our National Guard Trust Fund, that fund supports tuition assistance and the funeral honors program. Next, page 36, is the funeral honors NDI. Mr. Humphrey, I think before we continue, we might need to go back one, Representative Mayhew, you have something, please proceed. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair, so on, on page 31, we had a reasonably significant lapse there, 2.7 million out of the total of eight. Was it because it was a new program and we didn't reach that anticipated appropriation, or is, is there something that we can expect to see every year this significant lapse? So I would probably make three points about that. First of all, the, the lapse that you show there is only spending authority, it doesn't necessarily mean that that's the amount that we had in the bank to spend. Second, the two, this has, supports two programs, tuition assistance and the funeral honors program, so there's a couple of unknown costs to both of those programs where we have to keep a little, some reserve for unexpected costs. With the funeral honors program, we're able to shift some of those state employees, the provide funeral honors over to federal funding, sometimes the feds will put those folks on orders, but we still have to have their salary there because the feds can turn that money off at any time and we have to bring them back off orders and put them back on the state payroll. Yeah, probably not a long enough history to make that determination, I'm just, what, my question was, is exactly what you're telling me, that there, there's some unknown things that we have to anticipate and, and you're right, it's only budget authority, but, but often those end up affecting our bottom line, obviously, and, and so it just, I wanted to make sure that we had a good reason for doing that, so. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Page 30 is the funeral honors NDI, this, we requested 800,000 in GR, the governor recommended 800,000 from another fund, basically this would be to, theFuneral honors program right now has to be supplemented by local veteran service organizations, that's your American Legions, VFWs. So for every service that they assist with, we pay them a stipend and it's $100 and it's been $100 for like 20 years. And so this would allow us to increase that stipend. Is the, so the, in this, the department request was general revenue, as you kind of alluded to or noted there, and the governor recommended the amount, but out of the Missouri National Guard Trust Fund, it does look like there's been some lapse there, but is that, you know, you believe that the, that fund can support this item? Is that, is there, what's the confidence level there? So currently I have high confidence that we could support half, and based on that, General Hausman has already, actually in his first day, directed that we increase the stipend by 50% to 150, so we did that. I don't have high confidence that we could support the other 400,000 without potentially endangering those other two programs. So I think we're probably just gonna take a wait and see and see how the cash flow goes in the fund. So if I'm hearing you correctly, if we agree probably with the fund source, you probably only need 400, not 800 for FY26 in authority for this item? Yes, 400, if we were to leave it at the 50%, we would only need 400. Yeah, because if we give you eight, and you don't, I mean, you can have the authority, but if you don't have the dollars, then. Correct. Doesn't really do anything for us. Right. And then, before we go back to Representative Mayhew, this is like American Legion, VFW, and those, so they're not any longer uniformed personnel, be it, but they're prior service, and they're in our local communities, and this is a way they can continue to serve, and this is just to help them offset, whether they got the, the VFW has their own van and transportation costs, and this is the totality of the amount to cover the, I guess the team, you would call it, that. Right, they're trained, certified by us, to assist with those, and like you said, the stipend, sometimes they use it to help with gas, sometimes they help it with uniforms, because uniforms are very expensive, but some actually don't utilize it, they eat those costs themselves. For example, one of the VSOs down around Springfield was telling me how they just take all the money and put it in a big pot, and at the end of the year, they use that to provide Christmas for underprivileged families, and they actually supported 36 families last year, so some of them don't even use it, they pour it right back into the community. Yeah, I think one of mine uses it, not a dissimilar, and for like, Boys and Girls State type, you know, scholarships, so obviously these are people, you know, individuals that are continuing to, you know, serve our communities, but to the extent they need it to support, you know, the actual activities, this is the extent of the expenditures or the support that we offer. We don't, and you mentioned offset gas or whatever, like we don't pay mileage, anything of that sort. Representative Mayhew, you may proceed. Yes, thank you, and the thing you notice when you attend these things is that the age of that honor guard is getting older, and all of these ladies and gentlemen are on fixed incomes, and so it's much appreciated, regardless of what they use it for. Is there, so we were a little bit concerned about the $400,000, and I'm not finding in the detail where we have a number that goes toward that specific thing. Is that something that you can provide to tell us how much we spent last year on the honors thing? Yes, so it was approximately 800,000, because if we'd got the whole 800,000, that would have allowed us to double that. Okay, so that is the number for that, and it was 800,000? It was approximately 800,000 is what we spent last year on BSOs, so if we had gotten this 800,000, we would have been able to double it from 100 to 200. Okay, and so we, but we're confident we can at least do the 150? We've done that, yes. Okay. We started that February 1st. All right, thank you very much, and I know my BSOs appreciate that very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Chair. One last question, before we go to, it looks like 39, is the current, the 800, is that, what's the fund source on that? Is it this AIM Missouri National Guard Trust Fund, or is that general revenue? Do you know offhand? So, are you talking about what we paid out of last year? So the core is a combination of the trust fund and GR. Okay, thank you. I think we can continue to 39 now. Page 39 is the USS Missouri Maintenance and Repair Core. Page 44 is the Veterans Recognition Core. Page 49 is the Adjutant General Field Support Core. Representative Steinhoff, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. If we can go back to page 44 a minute. I know that this is a small amount in a massive budget, but it can have a really big impact on our veterans and our families. And I see that we're not expending it completely, and in our line of work, we're in our communities and running into veterans and families all the time, that this could mean a lot too. I wonder if you feel comfortable just sharing how somebody would apply for this, or be able to get this and what this program is, so that we're aware. So they can, there's a form online where they can apply. We also spend some time and money advertising the program. The program administrator goes out to veterans, like activities and events, and sets up a booth. So we try to get the word out as much as we can. And it's in order for them to receive different medallions that we've allocated for them, right? That's right. They apply, and then we verify their service record, that they're entitled to it, and then they get the medallion. Okay, thank you. Thank you for doing that. Thanks, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Page 49 is the Adjutant General Field Support Corps. Page 50 is the Armory Rentals Corps. Or, I'm sorry, 55. Page 60 is the Missouri Military Family Relief Corps. Okay. Page 65 is the Adjutant General Training Site Revolving Fund Corps. Page 70 is the Contract Services Corps. Page 76 is an NDI. This is for our Moswin Radio Software update. This was recommended by the governor. On this item here, and this is a general revenue request, is there any federal interoperability or a federal, I mean, could this be used in any way for the federal mission if we had that? And you kind of see where I'm going here. Yeah, so the program that these were purchased under, they were actually purchased under a federal program with federal dollars. However, that program did not have any, it didn't continue for the upgrades. So it was like they said, yeah, we're gonna buy you these, but you have to upgrade them as technology advances. And so, that's where we're at. That's okay. But, and I guess we don't have any federal dollars just lying around that could be utilized for this purpose. I mean, they're not providing new funding, but there's no federal funding that we have access to, I guess, just to kind of close the loop on this, that we just, that just isn't there. No, we, and we did research to see if there was any pots of federal dollars we could pull down for this, and there wasn't. And so, we already, I guess I didn't, and it does say upgrades, I was thinking maybe this was to get us there in the first place. But, if we don't do this, then what happens? These 237 radios become glorified paperweights? I wouldn't say paperweights. I mean, there's still some, they would still be able to communicate in some areas, but as, you know, as other, as the other emergency responding agencies upgrade and start operating on the channels that would require the software upgrade, we wouldn't be able to talk to them any longer. So, when you're talking about us being called out for emergencies, it's important that we be able to communicate. I mean, we even have these radios in the Blackhawks. So, when we're calling in, you know, helicopters to assist with emergency, you know, it's very important that that aircraft be able to talk to the emergency responders on the ground. And so, as other agencies upgrade their software, it will start to phase out our ability to communicate with them. I see. I understand much better now. Thank you for the explanation. Representative Mayhew, you have something on this. Please proceed. I thought he was going a different direction there. So, I thought the question was going to be, can we attribute at least a portion of this to federal mission dollars so that we can access federal funds related to federal missions? Or is this strictly a radio system that is only used in Missouri missions? It's strictly only in Missouri. Okay.The feds have a totally different radio system on different frequencies, nothing to do with this one. And that's what I suspected. And so we have to have yet another set of radios to deal with the federal missions involved. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. How many radio systems are there? Is there just two or do we have more than a band? That's the only two that I'm familiar with. If you have been watching the news recently, obviously you've probably seen about the aircraft accident in D.C. and you've probably heard them talk about how the Blackhawk was on one radio system while the aircraft was on a different radio system. And the tower could copy both radio systems, but the two aircraft weren't copying each other. So... Very good. Thank you. I think we can continue to, I believe, 79. Page 79 is a NDI. This was for two federally funded FTEs. The governor did not recommend it. Representative Mayhew, you may proceed with an inquiry. Yeah. So when I was reading through this, I was like... It looked to me like yet another mandatory thing. The auditor said you've got to have these people in order for us to comply with the auditor's recommendation, which is usually a requirement of receiving federal funds. How do we get around not doing this? So the feds did a performance audit and said, hey, you need two people to make sure that this mailroom runs as it should. And OPS, we're going to give you the money for those two people. And so we're asking for spending authority for that, but the governor did not recommend it. Well, so, yes, and my point is, is that how do we meet the requirement that the auditor on the federal money said we've got to do? Well, without approval of this NDI, we wouldn't be able to hire those two federally funded persons. So we would just have to do the best we can with the resources that we have. But we're subject to another audit discovering exactly the same thing next year, perhaps. Or is that a one, it's a five-year audit or something? I can't answer that because this audit, it was not a state audit. This was actually done on the federal side. And so those, actually, the audit results were given back to us, like, through the federal side of the house. But to answer your question, yes, I mean, we could be subject to the exact same findings. Okay. And, like I said, are we going to, we've still got to do it, right? So are we retasking people to meet that standard, or we just got to go without it? Well, we're going to, like I said, we're going to do the very best we can and try to improve procedures with the help we have. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So this would be, if there is federal dollars available for this, they'd support these FTE, if you have the authority? Correct. And is that, this isn't like the radio deal, though. It's not a one-year. It'd be in however long they're needed, is our understanding. It wouldn't be a GR pickup in the future or anything like that, would it? No, this would be just like our other 300-plus state employees that are all federally funded. Thank you. Page 82 is the Office of Air Support and Rescue, the Civil Air Patrol's core. And that would conclude the National Guard's budget. I recall that last year we had an NDI, I believe we funded it, for a World War I memorial in France. Can you give us any update on that? Has that been completed or expended, or am I remembering that correctly? You are, sir. So we actually work with, there's a quasi-governmental agency. It's called the National Monuments something. It's in D.C., and it helps coordinate all the states that have foreign monuments. It helps coordinate their care and maintenance. And so what we do is probably every three to five years, depending on the needs of the monument, we come and ask for NDI. So last year, I think, was the first time in about five years we'd asked for it. And so that goes into a trust on our behalf. And then that monument association, they help us work with people then on the ground in France to do the maintenance, the grass mowing, if there's cement repair needed. And so that's where we're at. Do you have a list that you could provide to the committee of all our foreign monuments? We just have the one in Cheppie. The one you're talking about is just the one in Cheppie, France. Okay. So that is the list. There's one. For Missouri. Missouri. Yeah. Okay. You don't need to. Well, I guess, well, I guess the USS Missouri, we also have a budget item in here for that wouldn't be considered a foreign monument, but there's money in here to. I don't know. I mean, Honolulu isn't the lower 48, but I wouldn't go that far, so. I keep asking for funding to go inspect that, but it's never been mentioned. Yeah. I've had a similar thought, so. Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Oh, we have Representative Brown. You have an inquiry. Please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was brought to my attention a few weeks ago about child care. I didn't see anything in here, but you all do have a child care program, right, that helps with weekend drills. Is that correct? We do. It's federally funded. Do you want to add anything to that? It's a new program that started in the last year. It is a federally funded program that we've been, we were lucky enough to be identified as one of the states to stand that program up. So we do not have it at every location across Missouri right now, but we have started setting those up. Okay. I know that's such a hot topic up here right now, lack of child care, but I thought you all did start a program last year. But you don't have anything for when you're, it's just weekend drills, nothing for when you're deployed? It is for the drill weekends, yes. Okay. Thank you. Representative Mayhew, you recognize an inquiry. Thank you. So this may not be the appropriate spot for it, but it occurred to me, and I was going to call you earlier, Nick, on this, but I didn't see the Civil Air Patrol in here anywhere. Is that not in your budget anymore? It was the last budget item that I briefed. My apologies. There it is. Sorry. It got lost in the tabs. Thank you. Representative Martin, you have an inquiry. Please proceed. Yes. On the freshman tour, when we toured Jefferson Barracks, this is kind of a follow-up, they were talking about some need for funds there for some, like one of the older buildings at the front there. Is that being proposed in another area? Just kind of give me an update on that. Did Mr. Humphrey pay you to say that? Was that designed beforehand? Yeah. Talk about House Bill 19, Nick. It is, Governor, recommended, and it is in House Bill 19 to rehab that building. I'm just curious where that, you know, came through or not. It did. Yep. We're very appreciative of that support from the Governor. So any other inquiries, comments about the Department of the Guard, the Missouri National Guard, before we conclude today's budget presentation? Do you have any closing comments? Thank you. Well, we appreciate the committee, and we obviously stand by to answer any questions anybody may have as they move forward. So thank you very much. Appreciate you joining us this morning. That will conclude the budget presentation for the Missouri National Guard, and we'll now move to the Missouri Department of Revenue. Director, would you like to come forward? And congratulations on your return, and good to see you again in a little different role this year. And feel free to make any, you know, opening comments you'd like, and you're welcome to begin in the book whenever you're ready. Thank you very much. Appreciate that, Mr. Chair, Mr. Chair, Vice Chair, and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the committee. I'm Trish Vincent. I'm the Acting Director of the Department of Revenue. This is my second tour as the Director of Revenue. The first time I was the Director of Revenue under Governor Blunt, and I'm very humbled to have been chosen by Governor Kehoe to work in his administration and to be back at revenue. We work very hard for Missourians across the state, and we serve all of them. I would introduce everybody that's with me, but you're going to hear from many of them, so we'll just dispense with that. We have the aid team back there behind us that'll answer all your questions today. We are going to present the Department of Revenue 2026, FY26 budget. We did distribute something in front of you that is kind of a summary of the documents. Just for your quick reference, this might be helpful when you're talking to constituents out there. If you go to slide four, you're going to see our operating budget, and it's got some history there compared to FY24 and 25. You can see that in FY26, our CARB budget is at request for $85.9 million with $1,118.55. I want to meet that .55 FTE, but anyway. On slide eight is a summary of our NDIs that we're going to be talking about.with you about. It is an additional six million but I want to point out that 2.24 million of that is GR, the rest of that is feds and other funds. We also had to increase our refunds for up to 113 million dollars. We'll talk about that NDI. And also just you know there's some quick references of the new decision items that we're talking about that you can just take time between slides five and eight to to look at. So we do have in there also our legislation that we're looking at this year. Some of the initiatives are an income tax elimination plan. Probably heard that in the state of the state. We're working on Real ID. We also have a new system in motor vehicle and driver's license and we'll be working on a dealers section where we'll be collecting sales tax at automobile dealers. And then we have an uninsured motorist that we're going to talk about. So but because I am new, although I know the budget, I read through the whole thing, but I'm going to let the professional here, Amanda Boland, she's our administrator of our Financial Services Bureau. We're here for any questions that you might have. It is a large budget, I apologize, but not as big as some of them. So but you know we do take in a lot of money. Last year we took in over 20 billion dollars. So a lot of money passes through revenue and so we're here to educate you, have some new faces out here. So please reach out or stop us with any questions. I'm going to turn it over to Amanda. Before you do Director, and I've just this just occurred to me and I don't mean to you know put you on the spot or surprise you, but you are in a unique position. I don't know if totally unprecedented, although I wouldn't be surprised at that either if you've, you know, to be a director and to return some number of years later. And you know it's not as though you've, you know, you've been in and around state government in the intervening years as I understand it. But what if anything, you know, and you've been there now back for a short period of time, but what if anything has been surprising to you that's changed in those years as it relates to the department? Is there anything that immediately comes to mind, you know, good or, you know, a challenge that exists now that, you know, previously wasn't necessarily an issue or a concern? Is there, is there any, and if there's not, that's, that's fine. But I was just curious, you're kind of in a unique position that few, if any, have ever been to kind of have that reflection. Sure, obviously just to fully disclose, it was 20 years ago that I was Director of Revenue. So 20 years is a flash, it just goes by just like that. What I'll tell you at Revenue, we do the same things. The laws have changed, we're dealing a lot more with technology, but every place I've gone I've, we've implemented new technology. So that's a positive thing. I think one of the really big things is we have some institutional people there that were there 20 years ago that are still there today. My Deputy Director, she's getting ready to retire Lynn Kempker back there, almost 41 years with the Department of Revenue. I've got other individuals that have been there 20, 30 years. I actually talked one out of retirement to come back to work with us. So having that institutional knowledge is extremely helpful because the business doesn't change. You know, tax laws may change, we may have more exemptions. They did finish the, the tax system which makes us a lot more efficient, but having those individuals that know the nooks and crannies of everything have been an extreme help to me. But the business is the same. We're collecting taxes, we're giving out licenses, we're doing titling. We are, we do have an Investigation Bureau and we're, you know, trying to make sure people are following the law. That's a challenge. The new thing that I would say is we're kind of involved in the marijuana collecting of taxes and we may, we may touch on this, but there was nothing in, and of course I'm very familiar with initiative petitions. For those that don't know, I was the Deputy Secretary of State for Secretary Jay Ashcroft, so I've seen a lot, over 700 initiative petitions come through that office. In that initiative that was written by somebody else and we all voted on it, there was nothing in there for the Department of Revenue to make them pay their tax. So we're having to work through the Department of Health and Senior Services to have them send out letters and threaten to pull their license. So, you know, those are the nuances that come up and every day is a new day at Revenue, but it's a wonderful place, wonderful people. What's great for me too is when they say an acronym, I actually know what it is. I don't have to be taught about it again, so I hope I'm an asset for the governor, for you all, and for the the citizens of Missouri, but thank you for the question. Yeah, thank you for that. That's actually very fascinating, several things, and, and, and very insightful and helpful, and yes, I bet in 2004 you could have, would have never guessed that the Department of Revenue would be involved in the collection of marijuana taxes. I'm just a guess, but maybe you did foresee that. I don't know. No, if I would have, maybe things would have turned out differently. No, I'm only kidding, I'm only kidding, but it was a great question. Any, any questions of a general nature before we begin the book? Representative Sharp, you may proceed. Well, good morning. I just want to comment, you know, in our jobs here, we're in a six or eight year window sometimes, but for the, us in our seventh year, when we came down here, it seemed like from our constituents it was Department of Revenue problems. However they were handled, we got lots of complaints, and in the last few years it has been like crickets, where, you know, something's, you're doing something right, there's something at the Department was, was, was much better. Certainly for my own accountant, had quite a few complaints, and it's been much better the last year, so I want to commend the Department. I know in any business or whatever service we're offering, there's always peaks and valleys, but they seem to be on a real rise as far as how the Department of Revenue is handling things, so I just want to commend you. The same way, you know, we'll go the other way when it goes the other way, but certainly for my constituents, it's certainly been much better in the last few years, so thank you. Well, we always like to hear positive comments. You know, we actually touch almost every Missourian, and we try to strive for customer service. That is something that the governor also has instilled in all of us that are in his cabinet, and so, you know, whether it's a piece of paper, a phone call, or somebody, a computer screen, that's a customer, and we need to do everything we can to assist them. Likewise, if you have problems with anything, or you have a constituent that is having concerns with us, we want to know about that so we can take care of it, but thank you so much, Representative. It's always nice to hear good things, and so we'll try to keep that on the upward, upward trajectory, so it's always like that. Representative Brown, did you have a comment or inquiry? Okay. Representative Prouty, you have something? Please proceed. That's all I wanted was for you to look over here. I went looking for you in the Secretary of State's office now that it's on floor one, and you were gone, Miss Trish. Director Trish. I'm just Trish. And I, so I'll miss, you know, randomly going get pieces of candy from you and playing with that stamp, you know, just popping in on you now that you're, you're big-timing on us, but welcome back. Well, I'm glad that you're here with us still in the state capacity because you're an absolute treat. Thank you. Well, thank you. Just come over the Truman Building. I have candy over there, too. Yes. Okay. All right. I think we can begin in the book now. Thank you. All right. Thank you for that, Trish. As she stated, my name is Amanda Bolin. I am the Budget Administrator for the Department of Revenue, and let's continue on to page 2 with the flexibility report. The department is requesting 10% flexibility between personal service and equipment expense between the divisions, which is the same as we requested in fiscal year 25. Okay. Moving on to the statewide pay plan, which is found on page 3, which the governor has recommended. And then moving on to page 12, we have the Highway Collections Corps. The Missouri Constitution limits the amount of highway funds the department may spend in administering motor vehicle sales, use tax, motor vehicle driver's license fees, and motor fuel tax to the 3% collections. The department's cost to collect highway related taxes and feeds exceeds the 3% allowed. The department is appropriated general revenue funds to subsidize the cost of collecting highway funds. When the Amendment 3 was passed, the General Assembly established the Highway Collections Budget Unit so the legislator could see in one area the amount of GR that was subsidizing the highway collections. These highway collections fundings costs are associated with all four divisions. I'm hearing from some members maybe we're having a little trouble hearing you. Could you make sure that that's just a little closer? Thank you. And there would be no changes to the court to this. All right. We will now move on to our first NDI, which is found on page 19, which is the SAVE program. The department is requesting funding for the cost to continue to cover rate increases from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to use the systematic alien verification entitlements, which is the SAVE program. This is an intergovernmental information sharing initiative designed to aid licensing bureaus in verifying a driver's license applicants immigration status for lawful presence. The REAL ID Act of 2005, in order to maintain the compliant REAL ID documentation issuance program. The governor recommends 46,600 of expense and equipment. Okay. Moving on to the next decision item, which is the uninsured motorist program. Can you help me understand on that? I'm just trying to because you do have to present something beyond just like a utility bill or something for to get a driver's license in the first place, do you not? And so how I mean is it just does this verify that documentation is authentic? I mean you know so if it's like a Social Security card that's presented or somethingYou know, you might supply somebody a driver's license based on that, but maybe it's a fraudulent Social Security card or something. I mean, what exactly, I mean, how does this, I mean, I'm very, I think this is just great and wonderful and I'm supportive of the, but just what does this actually do or how does it work? The program itself, this is to cover the cost of the increases. So there's going to be a staggering cost over the increases up to 28, so this is just helping those. So we're already doing this? Yes. Okay, great. So this is what we're already doing? Yes. How does it work? I mean. Does anybody know? So let's get somebody up here to talk about the SAVE. So we actually run this through and so every time we hit the SAVE system, they charge us. So, but I'm going to have Hannah just explain exactly how that works because I think this is a moment of education for everyone about this program. So this is Hannah. Hannah, introduce yourself, please. Hi, I'm Hannah Wilson, Administrator for the Driver's License Bureau. Can you make sure is that microphone on green light? Thank you. Hannah Wilson, Administrator for the Driver's License Bureau for the Department of Revenue. And let me just explain, so 302171 requires the director that we verify an applicant for a driver's license is lawfully present in the United States before accepting the application. Electronic verification of lawful status is also mandated per the provision of Real ID like Amanda said. So we use the SAVE program to verify that those documents the applicants are submitting. So they'll send a response back saying, yes, these documents are valid and you can issue those driver's license for in a period of term. So it is as kind of I was thinking. So I present you whatever the documentation is, say a social security card or something and this is, if it works as it should, should provide some verification that it is authentic, you know, and would catch fraud or something. Correct. And if we don't receive verification back from SAVE, we will not issue the document. Okay. Wonderful. All right. Thank you very much. Any other questions on this item? Representative Cabralo, you may proceed. This is budget and I'm not sure if this is the time or place to ask these questions, but Ben's the director is here, maybe it is, and if not, somebody can shut my mic off. These new Real IDs that we get. So I got my little card and this is my bitching complaint time, I guess. So I get my card and I'm going to get my first Real ID because it's time for me to do that. So I read on that card to make sure everything is, that I'm going to take everything that's on there. I go in, I have all my stuff, and the lady at the License Bureau said, I had my two bills that I needed for address verification. She said, these bills are too old, and I'm like, it didn't say anything about how old they had to be. And I think they were maybe six months old. They wasn't, because I had picked them up out of the back of my truck, which is where my office is, in the backseat of my truck. And I said, really? I said, it didn't say anything. She said, well, I can't accept that. I said, well, hang on a minute. So I went out into my office, and I found some that was newer and got them. I just didn't understand that. And it didn't say it needed to be that, so I don't know if that's, and maybe we can't tell everybody everything, but that was not a thing on there. I also had on my license, which the Department of Revenue should have known, I had an endorsement of P&S for a school bus driver. Well, I give her all that stuff, and she says, well, I need your DOT physical. I'm pretty sure not very many people carry their DOT physical around with them. I couldn't get my license unless I had that. Luckily, I knew somebody at the hospital, so I go and get that. So it wasn't as easy as it seemed like. It seemed like maybe there could be some more work on that. My next question is, and I've had two in the last six months. People had, constituents had real IDs. They lost them, or they stole them or lost them or something, and wanted to get those replaced, and you can't just get them replaced. You have to go, and correct me if I'm wrong, you have to go through that whole process again of taking everything to the License Bureau and redoing it. Is that correct? So the Real ID Act does require documents for proof, even in duplicate transactions, but I think it's, I think we could probably take a look to see what we could allow as far as the state to do to allow for duplicates without bringing all documents. And one of them was just within six months. They had just got it. So it's like, is that not in the computer system somewhere that you've, yep, you give us everything you needed, but now we've got to have it again. For Real ID transactions, we do retain those documents, and you can opt in for a ten year retention or further, but we can talk about it further on duplicate transactions specifically. Okay. And I might just add, you know, getting a duplicate, we want to make sure who you say you are. Absolutely. So, you know, we just don't want to be handing out duplicates to someone, so, but we can look at that, and I appreciate the information you're sharing. You have a little bit extra things on your license that, you know, that we can work with, and we'll make sure that our website is clear about the bills, that they need to be more current, and we can maybe put some information on there, but we'll look at Real ID, because we do scan all those documents in, and we do save them in the system, so we have them for future reference, so, but we'll take a look at that. Thank you very much. Sure. Representative Brown, you have an inquiry, please proceed. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to back up a little bit. I hate to be that guy, but page 12, the highway collections, because this one has always kind of confused me, to be quite honest. Why are the highway funds not totally used before we dip into any of the general revenue? I mean, this is a big general revenue line item. We're regularly told that we cannot direct highway funds, but I just noticed there's some unexpended funds, and there's some unexpended highway funds. Shouldn't they be the first money out the door, and general revenue last, or maybe explain that to me. I mean, generally, yes, we do try to use the highway collections before the GR, but it also depends on how it is allocated per division, because we do split these funds to all four divisions. So, therefore, per division, it depends on how many FTE are in it and what they're utilizing those funds for, to be specific. Okay. That makes sense. Thank you. You're welcome. Representative Elwin, you have an inquiry, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Jumping now back to Real ID, when I went through that process, I mean, a lot of the documents I understand. There was one I did not, and that was you need to go to the courthouse and get evidence that you're married. Why would marriage have anything to do with you being eligible for Real ID? Was this for you or your wife? Well, we both went and applied for Real ID at the same time. So, I will tell you my experience. So, I not only married, but I was divorced, so my name changed. So, they need to have proof of your name change. That's why your wife needed her marriage certificate, unless she kept her maiden name. If she kept her maiden name, she wouldn't have had to have done that, but it was proof that your name was changed, and so we needed that marriage license, which we scanned in. Well, she was probably disappointed because she found out she stuck with me, because there was a marriage certificate. Well, sorry about that. So, she looked pretty down when we headed back over there, but no, not really, but I just could not understand why. I mean, I was just shaking my head walking out of the license bureau going, why do I have to prove marriage? I mean, aren't you more interested whether I'm a terrorist or not? Well, it wasn't for you. It was for her. Okay. So, because of the name change. Okay, thank you. But that was a great question. But you don't look like a terrorist, so we're okay. Well, I wish it was that simple, but they wouldn't accept that. On the real IDs before we move on, which we certainly need to at this point, but this is federal law, and I mean, maybe there's some play in the joints and trying to make it as nice of an experience as one can, but these are federal requirements that we're having to essentially implement, and you know, our predecessors, you know, very supportive of them and their actions, you know, delayed this about as long as anybody, and then ultimately we split the baby, and I don't know what you people are talking about, because I don't have one of these real IDs, and I don't want one, and you know, you don't, a lot of states that's not an option, right? It's just, it is the only option. If you're going to have an ID, it's going to be a real ID, and we do have a bifurcated system. Is that correct? That, you know. That is correct. You can opt in or opt out. Now, if you don't have a real ID, and you're going to a courthouse, if you have a passport, you can get in. You don't have to use some other form of, if you're going to a federal courthouse, you have to use some other form of ID to get access, but yes, but the real ID can be used to. I try to stay out of federal courthouses, so. Or airline, you know, going. It is, yeah. And you know, but the thing about it, and I digress, and you know, it's better to laugh and cry about the pain of all this, you know, and it is, and I've had constituents. I had one, and I told her, and this is what I did, because I found even for myself it was easier, and if anybody's looking for, although you do have to have that, and so you always have your ID on you, it's kind of, you got to remember to have your passport. I find it easier to get a passport, and it certainly is for some people. I had a constituent, she'd been married and divorced four times, and I said, in different states, you know, and you got to get the divorce decree and all that, and I said, don't even bother. Just get a passport, and it'd be far easier, and I think that's what she did. So if you ever find anybody in that situation, that's, you know, neat trick, because it actually is easier to get a passport as far as documentation, which seems like maybe a flaw in the whole enterprise, but talk to your member of Congress. So with that, let's move on to 22, shall we? All right. On to page 22 to the Uninsured Motorist Program. The department is requesting funding to hire personnel and pay the vendor costs for program development of the Motor Vehicle Financial Responsibility Enforcement and Compliance Program that was established by Senate Bill 398.The governor is recommending $229,126. And then after reviewing the responses to the RFP that we just put out, in addition to this $299,000 that we were requesting, we are likely gonna need an additional $400,000 to $500,000 for FY26. Once we finalize the actual amount needed, we will have follow-up discussions on this. Okay, moving on to page 25, which is our next decision item, which is License Office Dealers Trainers. The department is requesting funding for the new integrated system, which is MoFusion, that will provide opportunities for the over 6,000 Missouri dealerships and 173 contract license offices. This is gonna help develop a robust working relationship between Missourians in completing their titling and registration documentation. The 14 FTE will be located throughout the state to travel to dealerships and license offices to provide on-site training and assistance. The governor recommends $1.7 million in 14 FTE. Not GR. Representative Murray, you may proceed. Yeah, just to inquire. I know this has been pointed out so often as an issue. My understanding of the issue was that at the point of sale with the dealerships, they weren't able to take the taxes. So with the 14 FTEs going out to the dealerships to have discussions, does that fix the issue? Like, how will that fix the issue with them being able to pay the taxes to the dealerships at the point of sale? Well, this is gonna help them with their on-site training, because I think a lot of it is going out there, showing them on-site how this system is working, and so hopefully that will help them understand and work with the customers better. Okay, and maybe it's more a question with the Secretary of State, I'm not certain, but I heard the issue was more so in the technology as opposed to the people aspect of it. I didn't quite understand the question, so. Yeah, so I'm just trying to get to like how, like this will help resolve the issue of people being able to pay their taxes at the point of sale when they purchase a vehicle. Well, so the new system we're putting in is being able to collect that sales tax with the dealer. As you all are aware, we have a lot of temp tags out there that have been driving around cars for 10 years, right? So this will be point of sale, we'll collect that tax, we'll immediately be deposited for our political subdivisions in the state. So it's gonna streamline that process for the people buying vehicles, quite frankly. So, and then this is to go out and work hand in glove with the dealers to make sure they know how the system's working. So it's a seamless process for our car dealers out there. That's awesome. Well, I appreciate it, and I'm sure millions of Missourians and everybody on Nextdoor will also appreciate it. So thank you. Representative Riggs, you're recognized for an inquiry. I retract that. Representative Cavallo, you're recognized for an inquiry. So this just popped in my head about this. You're collecting the sales tax, which I think is awesome at the dealership that they can do that, going to. Well, but do you also, what if they have not paid their county taxes? Because you can't go to the license bureau and get your license if you don't have your little sheet of county taxes. What happens if they haven't paid them? Do we know that yet? I mean, that's okay. We are in the midst of developing that system right now. That's a very good question. I don't know if anybody behind me knows the answer to that, because typically when you buy a car, you will then, we'll get all the taxes, but you still have to declare it at the assessor. So that's something new going on your assessment. My husband's a county collector in Cole County, so we don't go out much because he's collecting taxes and I'll be collecting taxes, so you know. So I know a little bit about county government. But Lynn, do you want to elaborate just a little bit? There we go. This is our almost 41-year-old. 41-year-old? So the way we're planning to set up dealers collecting sales tax in the fall of 26 with the next iteration of our integrated system is that the dealers will collect sales tax for that sale of that vehicle, but that doesn't finalize the actual transaction. You know, we're still working out where will they still need to go do a registration in which we will then require proof of property tax payment. We're trying to be able to let the dealers do as much as that. Maybe they upload proof of property tax or for a brand new vehicle, basically they just show that they paid property tax on a prior vehicle because they would not have paid yet on that car. But we're working with the system to either upload, where they can upload that proof, and or they have to finish that title or registration transaction, you know, following the sale, and at which time we will still be required to ask for that proof. Ms. Kempker, you were introduced at the beginning of the hearing, but not on the microphone just now. For those listening at home, could you introduce yourself? Yes, I'm Lynn Kempker, Deputy Director for Department of Revenue. And thank you for your many years of service to the state. Representative Hine, you may proceed. Before, Representative, could I just, I want to add too that many of our county collectors, they are sending that information daily to us with, so if you go to your license office, they can actually look to see that you paid your property tax through our system. So I wanted to make sure that you all were aware of that as well, so excuse me. Thank you, Director, Representative Hine. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So my community is really excited for this program, right? I think we all are, the temp tag's a big issue. I see that you, there was a difference between what the governor recommended and what you requested, and it looks like the difference is in EE. What is attributing to that difference? The difference is is that they moved it from the highway collections funding to the, what you'll see, Motor Vehicle Administration Technology Fund. So it's just a fund, they're changing it from, and it's not GR, it's just an allocation from highway to this Motor Vehicle Admin Technology. That's all it is. So I guess my bottom line question is, do you feel like you have the resources that you need to implement this as fast as you can? Yes, but we also want to make sure we do it right. Sure, absolutely. You know, anytime, I've been involved with technology for 20 years with differences, whether it's been at the Secretary of State's office, department of revenue, or wherever. So we want to make sure that we, it's as seamless as possible for not only our dealers, but our customers out there. So these folks work really hard, we test, test, test, and we do have a vendor that we're working with that has done this in other states, so they're not a novice, it's not something, but we also have to Missouri-ize it, right? It has to accommodate our laws here. So again, we want to make sure it's seamless, we want to make sure it works. We'll be doing some pilots with maybe some local dealers to make sure if there's any bugs or any things we don't know. So I meant this is a process, and so we are beginning to talk about that now, so. Yeah, looking forward to having it implemented. Great, thank you for your work on it. Representative Steinhoff, you may proceed. I'm just, I should probably know the legislation better, but since we're in the weeds a little bit already, do you know if this prevents a dealership from rolling the sales tax into a loan, or if it's any caps on interest? This will not prevent them from doing it. They'll have to work with their financial partnerships to make sure that they agree with rolling in the additional tax. But that is another way that Missouri will get their payment, is if they can afford the car, maybe they can afford the payment, roll it in, and we can pull them out. I see good and bad to it. I mean, in a way, we're giving dealerships an opportunity to make more money off of the money we're collecting. And I know that that might make transportational more accessible to Missourians, but it also could result in some gouging of interest rates that we may not want to support. But you're saying that part's not really in that legislation? Right. Okay, thank you. But they can do that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So on this item, there is, I believe, in looking at the bill, language that, because obviously, you know, it's a budget book. I mean, there's a bill behind this that's actually the law. And in looking at 4.005, there's about $250,000, I think it's $245,000 and change in the core that's general revenue. And it looks like there is quite a bit of money in this Motor Vehicle Administration Technology Fund these days, so I understand why the governor would have recommended that. My question is, for that funding that's in the core, now that this fund seems to be pretty healthy, can this fund now fully support this? I mean, could that general revenue that's already there be fund-swapped for this? Do we know? Right now, yes. We have roughly 64, well, we collected 64 million through the 10% dealers collecting, or the 10% of the administrative fee. We've spent roughly 30 of that, which is a balance of 34, and we continue to collect a little less than two million every month. But eventually, as the vendor continues to write these programs, and we have to pay from that, the legislation will actually eventually reduce our collections from 10% down to 1%, and we're gonna need that 1% to maintain the system ongoing once it's up and implemented. We are a little concerned that down the road, will that 1% truly fund it? Will this be part of that ongoing? Yes, that will be impacted. We are evaluating whether or not we might have to seek a change in legislation to maybe increase that we can retain a little more than the 1% when it changes. But for now.where it seems like a pretty healthy spot. I mean, maybe in the future we might have an issue, but for today, we're okay. Yes, correct. And, you know, we're only talking about a couple hundred thousand dollars. I know we had to get up and running, and you know, you gotta start collecting it before you spend it, and there's kind of the, you know, one of those situations. Also, so for this, NDI specifically, on page 28, there's $648,000 for motorized equipment. I don't know, I mean, I take that, that's gotta be, I presume that's cars for the FTE. And I don't believe that that's one-time, is it? That's not one-time. So what are we doing with the $648,000 next year once we've already bought the cars? I mean, surely they don't get a new car every year. No, that actually is a really good question. We're looking at it. Some of it will be where they drive their own cars and we'll be reimbursing them for mileage for some of the training that we're going to be doing. But that would be an item we could look at maybe if whether or not it could be moved to one time. Very good, appreciate that. Okay, I think we can continue. Thank you very much. Okay, now moving on to page 29, where we will cover the new decision item, a third-party CDL. The department is requesting funding for the expansion of the third-party testing program to include private education institutions and private entities to administer CDL skills testing. This is found in Senate Bill 368 of the 2019 legislative session. Since 2019, the department went from overseeing nine third-party test sites to 17 by the end of FY24. Adding additional sites doubled the amount of examiners within the program, going from 24 to 44. The governor is recommending $99,930 in one FTE. Okay, moving on to page 32. We're gonna cover the next core item, which is motor vehicle driver's license system. The department is using this appropriation to evaluate current processes and gather data to develop a roadmap for updating and replacing approximately 50 mainframe and PC softwares and distributed web applications used by the motor vehicle and driver's license division. The department overall objective is to update or replace these legacy systems within the integrated customer-centric motor vehicle driver's license system. The plan is to launch this initiative in fall of 2026. There are no changes recommended from the governor to the core. And if there are no any questions, I'm gonna now turn this over to Cheryl Bosch, who's gonna cover our taxation. Thank you. All right. Good morning, chairman and members of the committee. My name is Cheryl Bosch, and I'm the division director of taxation. So our budget starts on page 38, and that's what I'm here to present to you today. The governor recommended no changes to the core funding of $28,193,743 and 513 FTE. The core request will continue to support the five bureaus of the taxation division, and those five bureaus housed in this division are the processing bureau, collections and tax assistance, the field compliance bureau, the income tax bureau, and the business tax bureau. The primary responsibilities of this division include processing tax returns, depositing money into general revenue and other state funds, and distribution of those local taxes that we collect back to political subdivisions. And we also are responsible for registering new businesses. The revenue collected by the taxation division funds more than 98% of general revenue. The taxation division continues to focus on legislation from prior sessions. One of them is what Trish referred to previously, which is us collecting the measure regarding legalized marijuana for recreational use. As Trish mentioned, this ballot initiative allowed for the state to collect 6% tax that is placed on recreational marijuana, and allows local governments the ability to enact an additional up to 3% sales on the taxing of the marijuana. Dispensaries began collecting the tax in February of 2023. In calendar year 2024, taxable sales from medical and adult use recreational marijuana were over $1.4 billion. B, yes, and sales taxes collected in all of those sales, and that rolls into general revenue, of course, as well. Also, over 75 million from the collections of the 6% were transferred to the Veterans Health and Community Reinvestment Fund in calendar year 2024. As I mentioned, political subdivisions can also hold a separate election to impose an additional up to 3% tax on these sales, and to date, over 322 political subdivisions have imposed such tax. That additional 3% tax has generated over 57 million that we've dispersed back to political subdivisions in 2024. Also, as Trish mentioned, there really isn't any enforced collections for the Department of Revenue to go after dispensaries that are not remitting that 4% for medical or the 6% for recreational, so we have partnered with DHSS in the last six months, and we've shared the names of the dispensaries that have not collected out, and there's not a lot, just a handful, but they are actively pursuing getting them into enforcement, so I'm really pleased with that partnership. We also look to work on ways to expand our customer service and provide efficiencies for customers. We have available on our website some tax matrices. We started out with publishing 48 industry-specific guidelines, and we've increased that up to 82, and these tax matrices are guides that allow businesses to research specific treatment of maybe something in their business. If a bakery wants to know, if they sell a cake, is it taxable, is it exempt, they can go onto our website. These will really help businesses when they make tax-related decisions and making sure they're in compliance. We also continue to offer a variety of ways for customers to contact us. In fiscal year 2024, the call center that we operate only answered 83% of the calls received, which is just a slight decrease from the prior year, but we do continue to offer some convenient ways for customers to contact us through live chat and the ability to schedule a tax call with one of our agents. In fiscal year 2024, the usage of live chat grew by 63%, and we helped over 35,000 customers through this feature. And then the ability to schedule a call with an agent, that increased 38%, and we helped 27,000 customers through that feature. We also implemented a survey feature, and we started collecting feedback, and right now we're receiving 93% satisfaction with the service that we provide in our call center. Happy to take any questions about the taxation division at this time. Representative Lewis, you have a question, please proceed. Yeah, my ear's perked up, as it always does on this dispensary. You say there's a few dispensaries that are noncompliant, that they are not remitting the 6% state tax. They obviously then aren't probably submitting the local taxes in the same district. How many dispensaries is that? It was around five. It really wasn't a lot. Five out of? I think it's around a little over 200. Okay, well, so if they stay noncompliant, do they lose their license? So there's two components to this. They are required to remit sales tax to the Department of Revenue, and we have enforced collection provisions on that. But what we were finding is, they were remitting the sales tax to us, but they were not submitting that 6% or that 4% to us, which we didn't have enforced collection mechanisms for. But that's the piece where DHSS has issued some notices of violation, I believe they refer to them as, to these particular dispensaries, and given them 15 days to come up with a remediation plan to get into compliance, or I assume at that point, they're going to shut them down. We are just in the middle of our first round of this. Will they have to remit? It doesn't look like they're just barely scraping by. So will they have to remit back taxes as well? Oh, certainly, certainly. They have to, I mean, the regulation that DHSS has that allows us to partner with them says they have to be in compliance with all state, local, and federal guidelines, which would include collection of these taxes. So they'd have to get everything on the up and up. What we're doing, once those dispensaries come back to us and remit that, we're issuing them a notice to take back to DHSS to show they're in compliance. In the budget we saw earlier that, I think you just said 75 million in 2024 went to the veterans. That's great, we're always happy to do that. In this next fiscal year, I think we heard yesterday, 14.5 million was going to go into the compulsory gambler fund. Something like that that was in the budget we heard earlier. And then a whopping one million was gonna go into education from the sales, if I'm not mistaken. Wasn't that what it was? 19? Well, yes, yeah, a bunch for the rehab. I thought it was 14.5, but 19 he says. And then I think that we were given the figure of one million for education. So is that the way you understand it? Maybe you don't have that knowledge. I don't have that knowledge. You're just collecting it. You're not seeing where it's going. I'm just collecting it, putting it in the fund, and what they do with it is up to the other agency. All right, thank you, appreciate it. And boy, go after those people that aren't paying their taxes. We do. Any other questions for the taxation division? Okay. Please continue. All right, I'm also here to present the budget for the integrated tax system, which begins on page 45. There is no change recommended from the governor for this core request of $7.65 million to continue to fund the integrated tax system. So all major tax types are administered and collected by the department are maintained.In addition to that, we have a number of activities that are contained in this integrated tax system. That includes tire and battery fee, sales, use, employer withholding, individual income tax, property tax credit, and corporate income tax. In addition to the functionality for collections of the system, we also register new businesses, perform collection activities, and we have a portal which customers can use to complete various activities on their account. We also have a tax system, which includes individual income tax refunds. We have issued over 4 million payments, totaling over $20 billion, and issued more than 1.7 million refunds to Missouri citizens. During last tax season, approximately 86% of those individual income tax refunds were issued in less than two weeks, and 97% of them were issued within less than 45 days. In addition to that, we also have a tax system, which includes individual income tax refunds, and we received and processed over 2,000, I'm sorry, 296,000 income tax refunds and issued more than 123,000 refunds for over $82 million, so we are well into our income tax season already, and that's all we use this system to facilitate that. More than 90% of the rules in the integrated tax system were customized to meet Missouri's needs. In addition to the customized code, we have outsourced operational support to a vendor. This request is for continued funding for this system to provide system maintenance, operational support, software maintenance, and any system enhancements, which would include any changes needed to comply with new legislation or functions to enhance our customer's experience. Thank you. Thank you, Cheryl. As Cheryl stated, I'm going to now cover the Motor Vehicle Driver's License Corps, which is found on page 51. The division consists of Driver's License Bureau, Motor Vehicle Bureau, and the License Office Bureau. They're responsible for issuing documents and registering, issuing non-light driver's licenses, and overseeing the registration process for each of the three contract license offices. The Governor recommends no changes to the Corps. And if there are no questions, I will now turn it over to Dan, who will cover the General Counsel's Office. We do have a question. I'm sorry. Representative Martin, you have an inquiry. Please proceed. I'm just curious, is there something that you're asking for, you know, for their, you know, funds? When were those last changed? I'm just curious. Are they on, like, every five years they get to increase, or is that just static or has to be voted in by law? There actually was a lot changed. It was a couple of years ago that they were increased, and I think that they're asking for another increase. Representative Martin, would you like to inquire of Representative Warwick? Representative Warwick, please proceed. There was a bill heard last night, or yesterday afternoon, in regards to, I believe it was 2019 is when it was last changed, and they're asking for a $3 increase. Thank you, Representative. Thank you. Okay. General Counsel's Office. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and the members of the committee. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. My name is Dan Follett, and I'm General Counsel for the Department of Revenue. In addition to the highway collections Amanda discussed a bit ago, you can find our budget on page 58. The Governor is recommending no changes to the core. As I'm sure you know, the General Counsel's Office provides legal advice, representation, and investigative support to the Director of Revenue in all divisions within the Department of Revenue. Among other things, attorneys within the GCO represent the Department of Matters related to taxation, motor vehicle issues, the licensing of drivers, contract issues, personnel matters, and records requests. The GCO also has two bureaus that investigate unlawful activity related to taxation, motor vehicles, and dealers, and driver's license programming. In addition, our office assists law enforcement and local prosecutors with state law violations related to DOR's many programs. On 65, you will see that we had one NDI, but that is not in the Governor's recommendations. Thank you. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Thank you for your testimony. If not, I'll turn it over to Josh Shope, Division Director for Admin. Good morning, Chairman and members of the committee. I am Joshua Shope. I am the Division Director of the Administration Division within the Department of Revenue. The Administration Division is comprised of the Director's Office, our Communications Team, Legislative Affairs Team, Human Resources and Total Rewards, Financial Service Bureau, General Service Bureau, and the Internal Audit and Compliance Bureau. The Administration Division supports the tax revenue collection and motor vehicle and driver's licensing programs by performing accounting, cash management, procurement, mail operations, warehousing, facility services, human resources, form development, training, and provide internal audits and reviews of the Department and Contract License Offices. So first, let's go to page 67 for the Administration Division Corps. There were no changes recommended from the Governor to the Corps. Then we will go to page 75 for our Postage Corps. There were no changes recommended from the Governor to our Postage Corps. And then finally, we have a postage rate increase new decision item on page 80. The Governor recommended $657,000 in 718 to cover the increased cost in postage. Representative Christensen, you have an inquiry? Please proceed. Oh, thank you, Chair. Just real quick here, do you have some FTEs that aren't filled? Yes. Is that why there's a lapse? Yes, we do. How many are there? I do not have that number with me. Oh, that's okay. But we can get that to you. Okay. Do you, is it quite a bit? Is that why? Which page are you on? This would be, I think, your 72. Let's see, it's the one. Yes, 70. I think it's just your core for Division of Administration. 67 is the core, and then the lapse would be on 70. Oh, on 70. The majority of that is actually federal or other funds, which is in regards to our Child Support Enforcement Program, and so that's actually more E&E than PS. Okay, thank you so much. So, back to page 80 for our postage rate increase and decision item. Of the $657,718, GR would be $407,785, and highway would be the other for $249,933. Could one of you comment just briefly, and I think there is some pending legislation out there, and, you know, you're statutorily required to do, you know, certain mailings and certified mailings and things of that nature. You know, what would the cost avoidance or savings of the state and general revenue potentially be if that statutory requirement was amended or changed? So, right now we have to send tax assessments out certified mail. We were talking about this earlier, that you know, a lot of people work, they get that green sticker in their mailbox or on their front door, and guess what? They never pick it up. We have about an 80% return rate on that. So, we actually have a bill with Senator Crawford and Representative Griffin that would change that, that they could opt in for email or maybe even use snail mail. It would save us about $2.1 million, and I think I told you Representative Deakin it was $1.2 Deaton, but it was $2.1 million. So, that's real money when we're talking about people that just avoid going to get their certified mail, and that cost is going to continue to rise. Yeah, that's pretty significant. Obviously, it's just going to increase over time, so yeah, we should certainly take a look at that legislation. Thank you for that. Okay, that's all I have for the Administration Division. I would be happy to answer any questions if you have any. If not, I will turn it back over to Amanda to go through the refunds and distributions. We see no questions, but before we do that, we're going to have to break for a session to go up to the floor, and so we will come back immediately upon adjournment and pick up right here where we left off, and until that point in time we will stand at recess. Thank you.