Chair Deaton. Here. Vice Chair Davidson. Here. Representatives Fogel. Here. Black. Boggs. Here. Brown. Here. Chappell. Here. Christensen. Here. Crossley. Here. Cupps. Present. Douglas. Present. Hausman. Here. Heine. Here. Calderlow. Here. Kimball. Here. Lewis. Here. Martin. Here. Mayhew. Yes. Murray. Present. Owen. Here. Prouty. Riggs. Sharp. Here. Steinhoff. Here. Steinmeier. Taylor Dell. Here. Taylor Tim. Here. Bernetti. Here. Voss. Here. Warwick. Here. Young. Here. Good afternoon, everyone. Good to be back another week. And we, of course, will continue today with the Department of Social Services, not Mohealthnet today. And Director, if you'd like to come forward now and Mr. Lubring. And we thank you for being here. If you have any opening comments, you're welcome to provide those to the committee. And if we have no inquiries, then you can just, at your discretion, go ahead and get right into the book when you're ready. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Chairman Dayton. Good morning, everyone. It is a happy President's Day. And also, we are kind of making this a habit at this point. So we like to see each other on holidays and Snowpocalypse Eve. So that but that's great. So yes, this is the non-Mohealthnet portion of the Department of Social Services. So today we are going to go through books one through eight of one. Nope. Nope. You did six through eight. You got that finished. Just one through one through six. And so I'm Jess Bax. I don't I didn't mention that. If you haven't, weren't here last week, I'm the acting director. 33 days, I think, at this point in my role. Very happy to be in social services. So I know just enough to be dangerous. And I'm going to talk for like three to four minutes and then turn it over to Pat Lubring. But one of the things that I talked about last week with you all is my journey to ending up in state government focused a lot on constituent calls. And so one of the things that I know that your offices are getting constituent calls about right now, we're getting constituent calls about is regarding the wait times and the redeterminations of eligibility and eligibility determinations for our family support division programs, specifically for Medicaid, for SNAP. And so that is a big area of concentration for me that I've kind of tried to deep dive into in this first 30 days of understanding the issues the team has been great in helping. And so that is an area of concentration this year. A lot of things that we can accomplish through technology. But you will see a request for resources in staffing resources around that from from the governor's recommendation with regards to technology. Technology is a burden and a positive. It's perfect when it goes right, but doesn't always go right. And we know that from being in state government and being around it that there are challenges. So certainly when you step into a position, you don't want to slow things down of the progress in a department. But I will tell you, there are some very large technology projects that are kind of on the verge of being ready to go out for RFP and even saying the words RFP for an IT procurement can make some people kind of just kind of grit their teeth. But that is why I want to take a really close look at that with the team and make sure that we are doing it the right way. Have we explored all of the other options? Are there efficiencies to gain in terms of the existing enterprise management software that we have through OA? Have we done everything operationally that we need to to be efficient because we don't want to put a bad process into an IT system? So that is part of, if you hear she's slowing things down, that is one piece that I will say. I do want to take just a little bit of time with the large technology because it's a big investment on the state's part and we owe the taxpayers due diligence in making those decisions. The other thing is looking at federal drawdown. Are we drawing down all the federal funds that are possible where it makes sense? One of the things that in my assessment is that we have left a lot of the transition funds for families first on the table. So looking at what is the implementation barriers there and how can we get that drawdown to happen before it expires in September of this year. So there's a couple of things that I think we can leverage to do that. And so that is also a primary focus for me. That is kind of all I had as opening statements is just to acknowledge a couple of things and introduce myself. And if there's questions, I'm happy to take them. Otherwise, Pat will jump right into book one. Any questions or inquiries about the director's comments before we get started in the book today? Okay, seeing none. Mr. Lubring, please get us started in the budget book. All right. Patrick Lubring, Department of Social Services. We will start with book one. And there's a lot of, this is the supports books. So there's several different support functions within here. As I hit them, I'll announce who is over that if we need help answering some questions that are willing to come up. So first of all, I'd take you to the summary page, which is the first tab after table of contents. Just kind of talk to you briefly about our overall budget. As Jess said last time, our budget is $17.5 billion. $3 billion of that, which is GR, or about 17.4% of the overall $17 billion is GR. And as Jess mentioned earlier, too, the majority of this is Medicaid. So Medicaid is around $16 billion of this $17.5, around 91%. What we're covering today is the remaining $1.5 billion. Real quick on that. I do have a question on page one. And before I do, just a point of clarification for committee members. I see some looking around. When we started with MohealthNet, you would have gotten all your books. So if you took everything with you, then that's where book one is. Just if somebody's wondering where their books might be, maybe that's helpful. On page one, on the full-time equivalent, the employee count, just curious on that, because when we look at FY24 actual, you know, it was 6307. You know, the GovREC for 26 is 6796.55, which is, you know, a little bit less than the department requested, 6,966. And a half. Just curious, do you look at that every year? And of course, the governor's recommendation, I understand, is separate, apart from the department's request. But are you looking at that every year and trying to, I mean, obviously you are, because, you know, the numbers are changing. But as far as looking at vacant FTE and to the extent you could reallocate, you know, for where the needs are in a given year? Yeah, I mean, to the degree we can. So some of these are lined out in sections like Children's Division and stuff. We do look at, you know, how we can reallocate across, within the state. So like, it's not just across budget lines, but within the state. I know both Children's Division and Family Support Division will take a look at where the most need in the state is. So, you know, I got so many resources, they will look across the state, do some caseload analysis, see where the need is. The other thing we started doing over the last couple, three years, maybe a little bit longer than that, is it's not just where the need is, it's where we can hire staff. Because a lot of, with technology now, staff can work from anywhere and do some of this work. But in certain areas of the state, our jobs are a lot more appetizing, and so we're more competitive in those areas. So we'll also take that into account when looking at allocating these. I would say on, like the FY 24 Actual is 6,300, you know, that does, that's after vacancies, we're around 6,700. You know, if you look at our turnover rate, it is getting, you know, some better across the board, but, you know, if you look at some of the bigger areas like the social, the Children's Division workers, you know, they're still around 30 to 40 percent. Our benefit technicians in FSD, you know, they're around 30, 33 percent. So if you, when you have these turnovers, and it takes us a while to get them up and train them, that's where a lot of that lapse comes in. So it's not like we have somebody sitting, a position sitting there, we're not actively trying to fill, but one of the problems we run into constantly is by the time we get five of them filled, there's five more vacancies. So, and we do some allocations and adjustments, try to adjust for that. And I do have a question or two about the retention piece, and recruiting I guess as well, but I'll save those for the, for the pay plan, so. Seeing nothing further on that, I think we can go to the FMAP adjustment. We did cover this during the Medicaid. I'll briefly hit it again. This is $59.8 million total, $46 million GR. Every year the federal Medicaid medical assistance percentage, which is how much the feds participate in the Medicaid program, and some of our other programs like 4E, that changes based on a super secret formula at the federal level, based on economics and population. So, this year our percentage went down, theThe standard one which is around 65% dropped from 65.31 to 64.44 and that's on federal year basis. The enhanced chip match went from 75.72 down to 75.11 or 0.61 percent drop so we had to go through and do adjustments. Now one of the things when we do these we also will true up a lot of the appropriations so that's why you see in certain places a federal pickup versus GR because that appropriation just got off a little bit so we we go through and even out all the quarters as we discussed. Can you, I believe Dan Hoggs, Director Hogg said that that was the largest decrease in FMAP percentage he's seen in modern years if I remember correctly. Yeah. Lucky us. Can you walk me through the on the on page three on your on box for your description the the the claiming to Title IV-E for foster care the adoption what you call the percentage rate and guardianship grew for guardianship and adoption decreased for Title IV-E on the foster care. Is that directly FMAP related or can you walk through and tell us what that exactly is and what's driving the in one case decrease and in the other two the increase? Yep and I apologize I forgot to add about that piece so in addition to the FMAP in the IV-E world for child welfare we do not get the Medicaid rate on every single kid there's what is called IV-E eligible kid. In the foster care realm that has been falling the last few years so that's based on some the income levels from 1996 kind of got set in place where pre war and some other laws that were passed back then when they kind of separated out the old AFDC program. So it's based on that but it's also based on some parameters as the kids come into care there's got to be certain language in the case the court has to take certain actions and it's got to be placed in a IV-E allowable placement. So on the foster care it is getting harder and harder to get that IV-E eligibility for those kids so as that percentage goes down so does our overall federal climbing. So basically if you look at an effective match we're at 50% of 65% you're getting effective around 32.5 but you know once you get down to 40 that starts really dropping down around 25%. Foster care has been going down the reason not adoption subsidy has went up. We just we just so on foster care and maybe we take them one at a time and I don't know if I have questions on or if I will anyway on adoption and guardianship but on foster care so it's not that we have less right in care that the the participation and or the maybe utilization would be a better word or the caseload is less it's that the eligible title IV-E claiming is less than it has been. Not the overall numbers are not less necessarily. The percentage of kids that we take in whether it's going up or down is going to continue to go down on foster care for the next few years until the feds will make a change. And the title IV-E is just room and board? Yes the title IV-E is a room and board component for kids in placement and it also covers a case management piece so for a staff working with those kids in care. So how does this drive state expenditures so we're likely see a GR pick up or unless there's just laps that we're absorbing but I mean there's going to be a high since the overall numbers aren't less than there is more state support that's going to be needed as a result I mean if that's decreasing then necessarily I mean that's that'd be correct would it not be? Yes that is correct it's going to keep our GR portion of this program will keep increasing until they make some kind of adjustment at the federal level. Okay appreciate that explanation and then cut you off if there's anything to elaborate on guardianship and adoption. Let's let's let them get through the adoption guardianship. They changed the law a few years back that kind of delinked some of that stuff from 1996 and really increased our percentages so our percentage there's around 80% of those kids are eligible because it's based off of the child's income and so they sort of delinked it from the old rules however one of the things they did when they did that was you have to reinvest that into the program so it's what we call adoption savings a lot of that money gets reinvested it's got to be set aside basically in our fund and we reinvest sales into appropriate spends that are that meet their criteria at the federal level a lot of that money goes to like the family resource centers to provide wraparound services for adoptive and foster kids that have the goal of adoptive parents. Representative Kupfs you have something on the foster care piece you may proceed. Thank you chairman. Good afternoon. You mentioned that it would potentially be three or four years before the the feds change something what what is the like is there kind of a consensus that they will change something is there a bit you know I know within the agricultural community everybody always talks about the farm bill you know we have to wait for the next farm bill but is there a particular bill that this is located in what's the what is the rationale that we're thinking it's going to be a that they that they will change something and be that it could be three or four years. Right we're you know just kind of what's came out already they've kind of changed and stuff around kinship care so one of the things is got to be in a four-year allowable placement so that'll help us because one of the things they have changed in the past so if one of these kids got placed with a kinship care totally four-year eligible everything was done right they get placed with a kin a relative whoever who doesn't necessarily want to be that involved with the Children's Division so they don't want to go and be full-time foster parents right that is not in the past has not been considered a four-year allowable placement so gets placed with child gets placed with grandma and grandpa grandma grandpa doesn't want to take care of any other foster kids but they're gonna take care of their own they don't necessarily long-term want to go through the training or take a payment from the state so what happens is that is not considered a four-year allowable placement so we lose the 40 eligibility on that child that has been changed we're looking at updating one of those the other thing I think is as they look at the TANF program they've been looking at a lot that's kind of when they got to link back in 1996 so I'm hoping what they do is if they do something with the TANF program if they ever do and again it's the Fed so three four years might be generous it might be 30 or 40 but I think the hope is they will take a look at that 1996 because every year that's this you know it was the AFDC standard from 1996 all the other standards have been increased for inflation they would just cut that part out then you stay the same on your income every year but we're looking at 100% of poverty or 175 percent of poverty back from 1996 every year that gets to be less and less so that's the hope okay is there it I wish you hadn't brought up 1996 so many things seemingly or within my world farm bill wise base acre wise logistic regulation wise it's all like we all talked about 1996 and I don't know why that is but is is that being discussed at the federal level right now like that I guess that's my main question is that something we need to talk to to our federal delegation and see if there's something that we can because I would rather get back to a point where we're like to put this in more elementary terms like it if we keep having to pick more of it up with GR and more of it up with GR it it we would never discourage you from advocating with our federal delegation for this and we'd be happy to talk with them like point them to us and we'll provide details on exactly where you find this in the ACF and how they could go about accomplishing that I think that kind of work is sometimes exactly what makes it happen because they're not they're not even aware that don't even know an issue for our state so yes absolutely and happy to kind of say maybe we can do that together yes and I love that Pat is making federal predictions right now well I've got some I'd like to throw in there so circle the wagons later it's it's it's hopeful hopeful okay thank you I mean yeah but there's nothing moving right now just talk on the FMAP piece last question for me anyway specifically on the FMAP not on the other you know the participation rate that we were previously talking about but as director backs alluded to and I think director hogs comments that you know 46 million dollars general revenue is a lot is there anything on the provider tax side that you know could potentially help or ameliorate ourselves of that I would just check with Tony on that if they've got any room in the provider tax to do an adjustment I I would think not at this point I know they constantly look at that but we can check with them and get back with you okay appreciate that and seeing nothing further we can continue all right the next is on page six this is the pay plan for the entire Department of Social Services sixteen point seven five million dollars six point six million dollars GR this is the time of service I'm sure you've heard a lot about so one percent for every two years in addition to the time of service for the Children's Division there is a one percent across the board increase for staff so those staff and Children's Division will get the one percent and the time of service in Division of Use Services those staff that previously already got the time of service will just get a one percent co-law yeah so for the DYS staff which they'd get the one percent right what were their lessons learned or you know have you seen because now we're kind of you know not only for DSS but really statewide is there you know I don't know is there just anything you can speak to as it relates to DYS and the experienceSo I'll speak from a statewide, just because at Department of Mental Health, we had a lot of our time of service pay plan for facility employees. And one of the things that is a huge benefit for this is that you have the ability to draw back in employees that used to work for you. There is an incentive for them to kind of come back and work. They see that their years of experience will add up to pay. So we did see that as a good recruitment effort in terms of getting some of those employees who were maybe on the verge of having 10, 12 years, but then they left for a higher paying job to come back because they were going to see that enhanced salary and then years in the future of advanced salary associated with their time of service. The benefit of that really is that you want an experienced employee always over a new employee if all other things are equal, because that helps you out in other ways. So I think that overall it decreased our turnover at mental health, but then it also was a recruiting tool for employees who worked there previously. If Scott has anything to add regarding DYS, I'll let him come up. It appears he is coming up. As he's coming up, I'll ask you, Director Bax, as the application was with DMH and as you understand it would be here with this, excuse me, it's not department specific. It's statewide service period, right? So if someone was at DMH for 10 years and now they've been at DSS 12 or two years, it's 12 years. It's not two years. Is that? It's state of Missouri experience, yes. Okay. Director, please. Thank you. Can you make sure that green light is illuminated there? Is it? Now it is. Thank you. Yeah. So I would just echo Director Bax's sentiments. I think everything she said is in keeping with what we've experienced. I would just add that I think one of the biggest benefits is folks in our employee pool that maybe were looking at retirement, set to retire, this has maintained them in the workforce. So that additional sort of years of service bump has really required people to rethink sort of their mid-range, short-range plan for tenure. I don't know that, so I think when you look at a plan like this, one of the benefits, I think very few people signing up for this work as young people are looking at, oh, I get 1% every two years as some huge incentive and separating or distinguishing us from maybe a private sector job. But the totality of the circumstance, if you get people to that five-year mark and they start to realize the benefit of it, I think, you know, I'd have to look more carefully at the data, but between that five- to ten-year mark is where we may lose quite a bit of people, and it's one more hook to have people in that stay. And so those are the sort of the long-ranging benefits, I think, of a plan like this, plus the immediate sort of stop the bleed and keeping people and keeping seasoned people, which I know in DYS, that's something that, you know, the labor market along with, you know, just the effects of the pandemic, people exiting this kind of work, it's been super beneficial to us. Representative Brownie, you have something on this? You may proceed. Thank you so much for the information. Who are you? Scott Odom, Director of Youth Services. Awesome. Welcome. Welcome. And then really quickly, I see that for the new decision item, most of the funding, we have federal, Title 19, TANF, FMAP, what are the various funds? We can get you a layout of all of those different various funds, but we have several different other funds, so like child support, HIF funds, so we got multiple of these other funds across the department that that would hit. I'd appreciate that. Thank you so much. We can get you a full list. Off the top of my head, it's primarily, I think, CSEC, maybe some HIF, and some other funds across the board. So on the Children's Division piece, if somebody's been at Children's Division 10 years or statewide service 10 years, then it'd be 5%, correct? 6. 6. 6. Plus the 1. That's the part I want to get to. So is it, you know, whatever the salary is of the CD worker, 1%, then 5%, or is it, when is the 1% adjustment made? I do not know for sure if they're going to do a 1% or 5% or just a 6%. I don't know if we just carried it out there. Do you know? Further conversation with OA Budget and Planning. We'll get back to you. Okay. All right. Yeah. We'd like to know that, because that obviously does make a difference, and so, yeah, we'll look for follow-up on that, and it presumably, and they made the calculations, not the department, obviously. I think that's correct. Correct me if I'm wrong, Pat, because it's a governor's recommendation, so. Yes. Presumably, they had to put pen to paper and make some calculation to come up with this number, and, you know, so we just need to know what it is. Representative Boggs, do you have an inquiry on this? You may proceed. Yeah. I was going to maybe wait and ask this, because sometimes my questions get answered, but it seems like we've kind of went around this earlier. The September money you were talking about earlier, Director, is that money drawn to a certain bucket, if you will, and so it can be only applied to a certain area, or is there several strings that draw that down? Yeah. So, if you're talking about the family first, it's got to meet certain requirements under the family first transition. There's a set-aside appropriation in here for that, and you'll see that when we get to the Children's Division section, kind of where that's at, how it's being spent. Okay. Would you point that out when we get to that, please? Yep. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, and you're exactly right in terms of there are certain strings, so we've been able to pull down some of those, but other requirements we haven't been able to meet yet, so we've left some on the table that is still an opportunity. So there's not, like, a requirement, there's requirements. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So it's kind of a lineup, because, you know, when we came in at 2020, we had money that had to be spent by November, and I've tried that at home, and it doesn't work well to send your kid in Walmart and say, don't come out until this money's spent. So I want to make sure we don't, that we're not, but at the same time, I'm not just wanting to draw money down, but I feel like if there's one thing standing in the way, we find out what that is, maybe we can redirect that into our budget. So anyway, when we get to that, if you could just point that out to me, because I'd be interested in that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Absolutely. And it is analysis, too, of the requirements put by the federal government, and the cost of implementing those requirements, and whether we can actually meet them with our provider capacity in the state. Some of it has to do with our provider capacity right now, and so we can be happy to follow up in your office with more detail, and we'll point out that section. Mr. Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to make sure I understand. So the governor's rec on the increases based on years of performance, is there any consideration for merit in any of that on the employee's part? Not that I'm aware of at this point. Do we have any capacity for merit-based adjustments, one way or the other? You mean as far as, like, ongoing across the board? Yeah. No, not that I'm aware of. So it doesn't make any difference how good or how poorly someone's doing the job, unless they do it so poorly that they're no longer employed, they're still going to get the same increases as people who are rock stars. And I would say we probably need to get some more information from OA, HR, to make sure we understand all that, if there's any basic requirements there. But right now I'm not aware of any. Well, not all counties' children's divisions are created equally, it seems. I'd love to talk to you all offline. So if you could maybe contact my LA and make an appointment, that'd be terrific. Thank you so much. Anything additional on the pay plan at this time? Okay, seeing none, you may continue. The next section is tied to the pay plan. This is a pay plan fund pickup for areas where there wasn't sufficient cash to support that or ongoing concern. That would be the VOCA fund and the DFAS revolving fund. Do you know are these positions all filled or any of them vacant, the pickups being requested for? I do not know if they're all filled. I think they are, but I'm not sure. Could you follow up with that? Yeah, we can check on that, yeah. I mean there's not that many here, so if you'd let us know if any of them are vacant, I would appreciate that. Thank you. All right, so that'll bring us to the core for the Office of the Director, 403,000, 2.93, so this fund's Office of the Director, Jessica Bax's office that provides the leadership and oversight for the entire department. Who is the, I assume one of these FTE is the director, correct me if I'm wrong, but who are the other? It would be. Who's the other 1.93? The administrative assistant and the deputy, and so to a certain degree we have to allocate a little bit of that salaries out, but that would be the deputy directors and the admin assistant there. Where is the rest of the director's staff? I mean there's, I mean I guess in a way there is, they're all right here, but you know traditionally, I mean I'm thinking of other departments, there would be other staff certainly that would be included in the director's office. Some of those staff that sit in the director's office have been historically for our department kind of allocated out among the divisions, so it hits a little bit from each division for some of those staff, historically. And then you'll have the next sections, and some of these next sections sit in the director's office like the CD residential treatment program.those staff are paid in separate sections like the HR. Almost cost allocated you would say? Yeah. Like the legislative liaison where's is that pieced up? Yeah it would be pieced and mailed out across the different divisions. Okay all right thank you. And that's been that way for as long as I can remember so. All right next section is the Children's Division Residential Treatment Program. This is led by Sarah Smith. She is with us here today. So this is the, this team is responsible for the licensing, regulatory oversight for all the residential treatment programs that we do business with across the state. The next section is federal grants and donations on page 29. This is two million and thirty three thousand. What this does, and we don't necessarily spend this every year, if there's an opportunity for us to apply for a grant this gives us the money to spend or to use that grant right away, but then we will come in with a new decision item to give you guys a chance to say in that and some ongoing funding for that. So there's no ongoing programs, this is for just the opportunity to apply for grants. Real quick on the back on the residential program on 23, but it's not actually in here because it's in the program book, which I think maybe you have it Pat, but we don't unless the member printed it or has it pulled up on the PDF version. We don't necessarily have in front of us so it's kind of have to reference a different book, but on page 20 of the program book it shows the it's got the chart of the number of those entering the residential treatment facility and for example state fiscal year 24 actual was 1,221 and I'm just curious and does seem like those numbers are growing a little bit but is that a number inclusive of those that would be in an out-of-state placement and I do believe we have some of that is that number I would think so I believe so yes okay and then can you and I don't have to have it now but can you follow up with how many maybe I guess let's just say for state fiscal year 24 since we would have those numbers well and then maybe for what we have at a point in time right now in fiscal year 25 how many we had in state fiscal year 24 and then how many we have at a point in time right now in fiscal year 25 children in and out of state placement yeah and then it may I guess it would probably maybe be an average or this would be in a specialized plan but what is the cost when we have those and it could provide that as well and a follow-up yep and we just recently looked at that due to a fiscal note so I can't remember the numbers off in my head top of my head but we did just recently look at that that's fine if you just follow up on that appreciate that thank you and with that I think we can continue and we were obviously already on the federal grants so please proceed so the next section is page 34 OA IT federal transfer for 17 million dollars so IT does a lot of our IT work this is and so we can draw down federal funds on that work that they do this gives us a mechanism to transfer that money into their account is this totally inclusive or is there any monies being deposited elsewhere for this purpose or so this would be the federal earning share they do have around 10 million of TANF in their budget so this this would not include that 10 million TANF this would be the total federal and there is a new decision item to increase that transfer on page 39 but yeah this would be all the federal funds we used to draw it direct I think last year was the first year for this appropriation where they kind of wanted to see it laid out and see that money deposited and other than the TANF that is all flowing through yes okay and then you alluded to the NDI which is around eight million dollars on to as far as I'm concerned now yeah so we do need to increase we did get a supplemental last year we did have some hiccups in our federal earnings over there so we didn't really at originally need that but now looking at it we do need the we have a supplemental here and this would be cost continue for the additional authority to take us into 2026 so is it sounds like maybe that was a one-time phenomenon but this is requested as ongoing is it is the one-time phenomenon reduced our earnings the ongoing is higher that's the one we talked about last year where we had some double counts in our federal reports okay so what's driving then the the 10% increase if I'm reading it right I think originally our numbers were lower than probably we should have projected a little bit higher I think the original we around 23 24 this will take us up to a higher level and to a certain degree we're probably won't spend the full amount what we don't know is these are in multiple different appropriations so there's a separate one for the snap which is the supplemental nutrition assistance program that earnings versus the Medicaid versus some of the 4e so depending on the work they do that could fluctuate between the different appropriations all right so it's not that something new has emerged but you're saying more so you think it was probably didn't get the number right to begin with right as far as where it was yeah our original estimate was lower we had a supplemental last year and maybe didn't explain that right we end up not needing as much that supplemental because we had some loss of federal funds there so ongoing we probably need around 24 to 27 million supplemental for 25 yeah I believe so there is I hear there is so that comports and there was a supplemental last year and it wasn't utilized but it would have been had there been had there not been the federal determination that they called back yeah I'm correct what would have otherwise been earnings represent may you have something on this you may inquire Thank You mr. chair so now I think I lost track of where I was at there but we had we had almost six and a half million laps and then the NDI is for eight million so that does that mean that we're expecting a total of 15 million additional as a result of this or did I miss something in there so I think the unexpended so we had 25 million last year with a supplemental we end up not spending that 6.3 million right because of the loss that we incurred and and so that 6 million was that increase was not carried into this year our future years so it went our appropriation last year was 25 million our appropriation this year is 17 million plus the 817 plus the 8 yeah now it'll take us around the 25 million but we had six and a half million in laps right because last year normally we would have drawn up to around 25 million we had a loss in federal funds due to our reporting issue that's what caused a lapse last year six million dollars okay can I talk to somebody offline yeah yeah we need my brains cramping up so basically last year we only needed around 17 million but that's all we had this year we've got 17 million if we fully earn it and we don't and that hiccup isn't out of there we do need the full 25 million okay so this basically takes us back to the 25 million exactly okay and now I see where we're at okay I'm Paula apologize for that I was like I said got lost in so we're just asking go back to the 25 million and and I was trying to explain maybe I should just put set it off the bat we did lapse money last year of the six million but that was due at a one-time issue we think ongoing we're closer to 25 right so we're yeah I got you now we're just getting us back to the 25 correct yes okay thank you apologize for that they just put it in the budget book in the most confusing way possible in your defense representative chapel you recognize for inquiry so did I thank you mr. chair did I understand you when you were doing your initial comments that you're looking to move to a new IT system is that what this is so really my comments were around the way that we do our IT work in terms of contracting so do we take advantage of do we use the traditional RFP IT procurement route or are there some efficiencies that can be gained through using the resources of like an existing enterprise management software that has a statewide contract with OA IT SD or are there certain pieces that we break off and do through an RFP there's qualified vendor listing contract opportunities is there a the federal NASPO opportunities just a way to look at maybe not going that extremely traditional route kind of work smarter not harder on the IT aspects of so not not moving forward with any project but just looking at doing them where we're not setting ourselves up for four years anticipating a big system and then it doesn't happen or doesn't work well we appreciate that not not all departments have been so forward-thinking and I think it's always a good thing if we can say what if we slice the bread before we sell it that's a good thing to consider and so we appreciate that I'm sorry if I misunderstood earlier but that's why I asked thank you and one last thing this is a non count section so I forgot to say at the beginning all right the next is our human resource center so this is provides the personnel and human resource function across the department it is six hundred thirty two thousand and ten point five staff this is led by Karen Meyer she is with us today if you have any questions what exactly I guess this just provides support or coordination to human resources throughout the department of me got ten half FTE here so clearly I assume anywayYeah, this is safe to assume you're not handling all HR function for the department though. That'd be that'd be impressive It's yeah, and and well, well, you know, well done if able to accomplish that. So what exactly do we have here? So that yeah, you're right. It's the HR director. They coordinate with all the HR staff throughout the division so each division has their own HR section or personnel section These staff coordinate the overall Activities across the department and and they also do some training and things like that coordinate training But they're not not all HR is broken out. So just be within each core. There's some HR included. Do we know how many? People are FTE that's dedicated HR without I do not off the top of my head. We could get you a number Okay. Yeah, if you'll follow up with that along with the rest of it, just be curious what the actual Number is department-wide. Thank you You All right, the next is a state technical assistance team we do have Frank tenet here and Matthew Lindemeyer from the state stat team So what stat does is and you may have heard him talk in the past, but they support Local law enforcement throughout the state and do some investigations and some really heinous crimes when it Involves children children death and and children sex crimes Yeah, we've you know discussed this a lot over the years as it relates to the dollar amount and I think you know This initiatives found good support in the committee and we added a couple FTE a few years ago But on page 50, I see that we're reallocating six FTE to support the fentanyl recommendations Was there's a study or report I'm I'm I guess I'm not familiar with that. What were the fentanyl recommendations, so On those staff and and that is coming from Children's Division over to CD and and these are just all These would also be the critical Event staff that review that so I don't know that that's really accurate on Okay, I'll have Frank explain that I'm Frank tenant director at stat We added the six positions over the past year it's a safe system review program to where we take a overall review of Critical events that are reported back to us things that occur that may not Rise to the level of a criminal investigation that we look at For our actual investigations, but we look at the policy and an overall review of those Criteria going back five years to see if maybe we miss something We don't want those kids to fall through the cracks child deaths serious injuries to children Children that are in care that find themselves abused or sexually molested. Those are some of the criteria for the critical event unfortunately, those things do happen and we're able to take a overview not of Individual personnel staff but of the system itself to make sure the system has not failed these children That makes sense. Are these staff filled currently? Yes, and were they existing staff that were just moved from CD to stat? Okay, and this is a little different than I mean, you didn't previously do this or anything like this. You're just Program, there's 38 states that have something similar in place I was asked if we could do it similar to the child fatality review program We built this from the ground up and they all came on board January 1 We started reviewing and receiving critical events to review. We're going to go back Usually after Children's Division has closed their case. We're going to come back There's some algorithmic programs that we use to identify Opportunities for improvement I guess I would just then the question would be to maybe you director to the extent you I don't know if you've been Read in on this or maybe to CD why? Why move this from CD to stat? I mean I could I mean it's certainly you all are in the in the Vicinity, but I could also see maybe CD doing this as well. So just curious as to the strategic decision there Yeah, so I would speak from I have had a chance to review this director Nodal and the team led a and director Missy worked on the Fentanyl report, I believe it was came out in 2023 and or 2024 22 children 22 children death. We did it in 23. Yeah. Okay. Got it and so it led to this recommendation and really the allocation of the staff is They're still working with Children's Division and you could position them in either but under the stat team they get the perspective of Looking at it from an investigation perspective in terms of all of those cases where there was an exposure of a child a small child to Fentanyl is one example, but there are many examples of when a child is seriously harmed injured or there is a death where There are things that you can look at from a system point of view to say did we miss a sign earlier? Did we miss something? That we can now integrate into the training for our staff to say When you are dealing in a home and you see this X Y & Z The you now need to take this action and so that can range from looking at who's in the home and the types of Various substances that might be used to who what collateral contacts you might need to do drug testing with So there's been a couple of recommendations out of that already and the fentanyl The fentanyl report was something that grew out of our child fatality review program we monitor the death of every child in the state of Missouri every year and We started seeing Fentanyl has had an impact on our communities across the board But as the narrow focus is as it was taking their lives of our children So we saw a trend developing and in 22 there was a 650% increase in children that were dying as a result of exposure to fentanyl, so Maybe with that type of number we want to get everybody's attention Maybe we were missing something Was that a public-facing report or is this internal? Yes. No, it was public-facing. It went nationwide. I got calls from Probably 40 of the other 50 states who are experiencing much in the same thing Can you probably on the website somewhere provides a link to that report as well? Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry you may proceed Thank You, Mr. Chair so Is it you're primarily working with law enforcement or you're primarily developing strategies for internal employees? We are law enforcement biggest part of my staff are sworn peace officers in the state of Missouri, okay Now this program is as much like the child fatality review program is a support program To where we try to put that information back into the local communities or the agencies our constituent partners in child safety and protection To make sure that they are seeing the same thing that we see on the ground level Okay, so you can activate on investigations of your own or your this is in cooperation with local law enforcement No, the the safe systems review is directly related to critical events now We have defined a critical event as a child's death Near death a serious physical injury a child that is in state care that becomes abused or molested Human trafficking there's a whole Definition all of those are reported that may not be called local police may not even be called It's something that our Children's Division folks are dealing with on a day-to-day basis they in turn report those to us and we begin the safe system review of probably five years back to look at the foundation of how this family or this child got where they were and what we may have missed along the way and and but you Your folks will actually do the investigation and arrest in a situation where there's a two different things Two different things. These are not cops doing this. Okay, these are Experienced Child social workers. Okay that came to work for us I won't we poached them to be perfectly honest from Children's Division They are senior experienced program specialists that know are familiar with Children's Division policy and protocols that can go in and Review to make sure that we're not missing anything along the way Apples and oranges this state technical assistance team are those people you just described to me No, yes, those six people that we hire. I'm sorry. I might help out here and so Maybe sometimes I'm just totally missing the boat, but I think the point here is that this is only a These six folks are a small portion of the stat team The larger stat team would be in the role of taking on a Children's Division investigation when it becomes my very next question Yes, so Yeah, because uh, so you were talking about a subset underneath this this team, okay, so I see that the and Maybe this is a misprint or something on page 51 so 24 there's a FTE of 27 and a half 24 25 and a half 27 and a half the next year and then we see 13 point 8 8 and 25 and now we're back up to 33 and a half I don't know where the 13 came from to be honest the 13 point 8 8 is that is that is a point in time FTE as of December 30th. Oh So, okay, that's just a half year so if you you basically got a double that number to get it to where we're atmake sense so what the budget book does is it calculates every time you have a staff I know there's a lot of this is because we don't we don't wait until the second half of the year to hire them right so how come they don't show up well this is there but I know what you're saying yeah it's just because the the second half year hasn't happened yet yeah stat has always been stat has always been 27 and a half and so we're going in this the six is 33 yeah okay got it now I know and that and this the six you're hiring are in this specific category that you're talking about correct all the rest of the 27 and a half yeah we've already hired them they're on board we went live with this program January 1 okay all right and I you're you guys are do a real good job of meeting your budget I mean it's but I mean that's probably as close as I've ever seen so that's the plan so yeah no that's a I can see that definitely the need right now after you explained to me what we all do over there but that report that the chairman was talking about it'd be very helpful fentanyl is it's not just everything you know in my county but my county is specifically got a huge problem with it so thank you very much thank you mr. chair representative Lewis please proceed follow up a little bit on this line of questioning so the is the six looking at only fentanyl deaths no they're looking at they're looking at all of those things that were in critical events okay so correct are they how far back are they going we started January one there's no way we could go back so you're not going backwards so you're only starting for anything any events that happened since January 1 2025 yes that's correct thank you so when is your first report going to be are they doing a month we'll do an annual report the whole process is we begin reviewing as soon as we get the critical event notification from Children's Division we begin doing back back biography and background after that case closes because we don't want to be a burden on the actual Children's Division investigation after that case is closed then we wrap it up we have a debriefing where we sat down with the actual caseworker maybe a supervisor and my ultimate goal is to see this to where we're doing this across the whole multidisciplinary team juvenile the court system everybody that had a hand in that situation so that we all can have a retrospective look at what we've done here and and and see what we could have done to prevent you know yeah I appreciate that I'm looking at thinking of it more from the anti-trafficking and that section but I'd be curious you know I don't I think it sounds to me like you're not going to have any data that you're ready to provide until December 31st probably probably toward the end of end of this calendar year well just like our child fatality review thing we'll put that out does your original that the child fatality review that you would have done over the last still doing that does it still does it include any of those events absolutely does and I'd love to get that link or a copy of that report which one well the one that's current I mean you know for that well we have the child fatality review report that came out it's it's it's a year back critical review the correct critical event review will come out in December next year all right thanks appreciate it thank you very much folks just clarification also on the placement representative Deaton there were some very helpful members of the audience who wanted to let you know that the reason and rationale that it was placed in outside of Children's Division is that it is a considered an auditing perspective of the system as a whole and how it's working together so to avoid conflict of interest so okay well that actually raises another question for me but I appreciate that that's very helpful where but we reallocated these staff from CD so were they doing the same I just presume maybe they were doing the same thing at CD but they okay I'm just head shaking they weren't so I guess whatever we were doing whatever those they were vacant FTE or whatever they were doing they don't need to be doing or what's the my understanding that the positions the six that were awarded to us were vacant positions in Children's Division okay we have we posted the position with a job description got 96 applicants for the six jobs so they really the six that we picked my perspective cream of the crop the best of the best and they're gonna we expect great things and it's a partnership with Children's Division the whole point of this is to give this information to Children's Division with actionable steps where they can improve some of the services that they provide got it very helpful okay thank you all right next section is on page for the Missouri Medicaid audit and compliance section six million dollars and 90 FTE 2.3 million dollars GR rich Ferrari who is the director over the Missouri Medicaid audit and compliance or em Mac is here with us today answering questions but em Mac they do the in raw provider enrollment for all of Medicaid and they also do the auditing compliance of providers across the Medicaid realm representative may you have an inquiry may proceed Thank You mr. chair do we do we have statistics on things like recovery cases resolved in those kind of things do we have any kind of metrics on on effectiveness here you can kind of go out to our program descriptions and I think next year we're gonna probably just go ahead and print these out for you guys too I don't know we'll we'll see it might be more helpful it lessons learned with this new process but yeah you can kind of see out there on page 35 of the program description it'll get you new providers enrolled investigations referred to the Missouri Attorney General's Office for prosecution what they call them if Fuku the Medicaid fraud control unit what page are you on there this is you don't have this book this is the one that's online okay if you want to take a look at mine and handed it back there but yeah there's a lot of stats and things out there for that one yeah if you could have them somebody send me an email or something direct to me toward that I'd appreciate it yeah and it'll give you all the fee for service audit recoveries the health management system recoveries and dollars percentage return on investment and number of self disclosures processed recoveries going up or going down cases going up going down just ballpark mean we're doing we're getting better at it we're I'll have rich come up here just so I don't answer incorrectly on that hi folks Richard Ferrari director of them back cool name by the way hey thank you kind of both ways what we've seen traditionally here in the last couple of years and I'm new to the director role since August and when I look at the statistics we've had a little bit of a decline in the recoveries effort so that's one thing that I want to look at us some data driven decisions to how we can increase that we spend a lot of our time on probably tooth out of our 2,000 of our providers the consumer direction service providers and we've had a few challenges in within the regulations and our federal partners and our statistical sampling that we've lost a couple of decisions at the age see based on some language so that kind of drove a couple of those declines as far as cases our cases that were referred actually gone up when we're looking at the fraud cases and our referrals over to and and so the reason I bring that up is because we're at 15 billion round numbers Medicaid alone looks to me like you've had about the same number of folks over the last few years trying to work on that that higher increase in cost I mean I don't know where we're at numbers wise but we've gone from when I first came here one and seven people with some kind of Medicaid benefit to now one in four I don't know if that number is still accurate but I have a sneaky suspicion it probably is close to that which means that you've got a bigger workload would be my perspective yeah sure yeah we definitely have a bigger workload and I don't know that our FTS have you know increased along with that bigger workload you know currently we see an increase of about 1.6 percent 1.4 to 1.6 percent providers every single month we're currently sitting at 79,000 give or take 413 providers at the end of last month and I think if you look at our projections there from our program description I think we're only shooting for about 73 or 74 for this fiscal year so we continue to see an increase in a need you know for those services and providers enrolled so we you know we're doing more work the you know more providers that are enrolled that's great for the Medicaid participants they have access to service that creates new enrollments revalidations more audit reviews investigations and we still need to make sure that we but every dollar fraud is a dollar that someone some deserving person does not get I would love to if you've got some time at some point to come over and chat with me about that to see if there's anything that we can do to make a job it easier so thank you very much thank you thank you we went from a car to a Ferrari yeah we former director Dale Carr that's my ongoing joke when I make providers is that we upgraded for just from the standard car to a high rolling Ferrari here so I'm not the only one who stumbled upon that before before you go at represent avoid excuse me Christiansen you have something for it's first time I made that mistake this year my apologies please proceed people are still just you know trying to get it going I just want to say you know I've actually met with mr. Ferrari here he's really great great team honestly you guys have great liaisons I work with him quite a bit and for you mr. Ferrari I just have a few questions and I know you probably don't know him right off the top of your head investigation times how long is it taking our investigators toI mean for every single person. I know once the report is given. How long does it take to really go through the investigation? Yeah, you know, it's it's it's a difficult to quantify how long it takes an investigation be done because it really depends on the Allegation what we're finding the cooperation, you know, we might have to issue subpoenas So, you know, we're trying to wrap those things up obviously just as quick as we can But the time because it's evidence-based You you really just don't have a you know particular time that you can you know put on it so they'll range You know if we get to dig in You know and the allegation is something we don't find it It's closed relatively quickly if we get to dig in and we see That there's some fraud in there a lot of times will then expand that investigation Open, you know to open it up even larger to recover as much money as we can So it really just depends on the allegation and the evidence that we're recovering. So it's it's hard to quantify Do you know how many reports that your office receives and then once kind of investigated how many get sent on to the AG's office? for consideration So I don't have that particular number off the top of my head. I will say at any given year where we are probably Sending 40 40 to 50 cases over to the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, but I can certainly get to those statistics. I have them available I just don't happen to get 40 to 50 cases to the AG's off to the AG's off But we just don't know how out of how many reports you actually out of yeah I'd have to do I'd have to get some numbers to you, ma'am Do you feel like the hardest thing going about in Mac is the evidence base? So like when an agency or something is coming to you saying they know it but they really just they don't have evidence They know what's going on Do you feel like that's kind of half of the issue or you feel like you can't? Stop that person's Medicaid services because there really isn't, you know concrete evidence even though the agency is like I've seen it I've heard it, but I just can't show you do you feel like that's half the battle? I think that's part of the battle and it's part of the challenge. So everybody has to remember and I appreciate all the referrals that we get it at EMAC right because You know, my history is in program integrity and fraud waste and abuse So any refer we get on that we I really appreciate it now the average layperson just because they hear something or that they think that there's something going on you have to remember when it comes to investigations or Even if it's fraud in Mofuku or if it's a wasteful spending, you know People have administrative rights they you know, we have to meet a certain burden of evidence If we're referring a criminal case that has to you know rise to a credible allegation of fraud, which is defined And even if we're if it's a wasteful practice They have administrative rights at the you know, administrative hearing commission in which we need evidence, right? So we need a proof of what was going on So, you know when you hear it in the dark secrets that this company is doing this Especially some of the larger companies that affect a lot of the smaller mom-and-pops I get that we get those referrals and I appreciate them, but we're an evidence-based driven kind of solution So, you know when we're looking at the evidence, sometimes it's just you know, it's not there But we then then what we do is we take the opportunity to maybe educate that provider. Hey, this is what we heard While I can't prove it. It's a it's a great educational opportunity for us to then reach out to the provider Yeah, and just one last thing. I know you and I have discussed this but I have always been really concerned about Some of these agencies and I'm more or less talking about the HCBS Which with Medicaid fraud is that they're kind of doing a payday loan system you and I were kind of talking about that and I've had members come up to me that have worked at other agencies and They basically will work that day and can get the money at the same day But they take like 50% of their money and I really have a hard time with this because I think payday loan systems are criminal but I feel like sometimes we are kind of Adding on to that because some of the people that are working at their lower income and they want their money now But they worked a full day and they're only getting like 20 or 30 dollars I mean, it's it's honestly criminal and so I would love you know to discuss more with that because I do think that's an issue I want to protect our people that are doing the work, but I don't want them I don't want our state to be doing a payday loan system type because of the agency's doing it I think same-day pay is fine. But when they're taking so much money out of their paycheck I think that's a problem Yeah, so I would attend to agree and I've heard about this same-day pay now keep in mind currently There's nothing in the regulation. So, you know, they're an employer I can't tell an employer how to pay their people and the administrative fees There's nothing our code of state of regulations but I would agree with the premise like these people are getting paid a particular service through Medicaid to provide quality services to our Medicaid and needy participants And I feel like it is an opportunity to take advantage of somebody when they need that, you know money right now They don't have the pleasure of waiting two weeks for payday And and I've heard of it. I've looked at it and right now, you know based on our regulations and the law I don't know that this is an EMAC enforceable action, but I'd be I'd be happy to sit down Director on this too. Thank you so much rich really appreciate all that you do. Hey, you're welcome We appreciate you guys and your support. Thank you very much That's interesting maybe a follow-up to that would be helpful if There's statutory authority that exists to promulgate a rule on that or if you lack statutory authority For something of that if you know, I understand there's not a rule today But you know could there be through the administrative rulemaking process or do you like statutory authority? You know to to be able to enact that if you so desired any additional on EMAC Representative cups, I guess this would be a question for you chairman Would you feel like it's within the law for us to add budgetary language that would restrict the use of those funds? to you know Not interest paid on same day type Payments. Well, that's a very good question. I'd have to look at it a little closer myself but you know, so long as it doesn't Run afoul of any federal law or regulation or any other Existing state statute. I don't see why not. So maybe that's something we may need you or colleagues could look at as we Perfect. Thank you. Chairman. Yeah, and I'd also recommend to keep in mind the access rule, you know from the Consolidated Appropriation Act FY 23 I think a lot of us through health and DMH and DSS are kind of working through the regulations and I think there is a minimum requirement in there now that 80% of those funds have to go towards You know being paid to those workers directly. So And you know with the new federal administration, I don't know, you know, you know what the fate of the access rule is But I know that there's an 80 20 percent kind of thing that they're looking at right now yeah, so one of the things that I'm glad you mentioned that because rich one of the One of the federal regulations that so kind of two different sides here I was going to mention it earlier because it's one of those things that you can't predict that are going to weigh into your costs that can be either monetary in value like an FMAP change or Non monetary, but have a big fiscal impact in terms of our capacity issues. The Medicaid access rule is one of those it was went into final effect late last year and Will be kind of faded in over five years, but we're quick requires a lot of Additional oversight on to home and community-based services a lot of additional reporting and that already takes up a significant amount of MX time The other piece of that is that one of the requirements is that for state plan personal care services? Which are the home and community-based services provided through health and senior services. There's an 80 Four or five year implementation timeline on 80% of the rate has to be used for the DSP pay Which is Then does not include the self-directed services. So Missouri would have to make a decision to include Self-directed services because it's only the agency model services. So the largest proportion of where this is happening I believe is the self-directed program so that could be a discussion point as well Thank you for that clarification and I believe we can continue You All right, the next section is going to be on page 61 and this is part of the M max systems management So this this is funding for the ongoing systems for the in writer and provider enrollment and some of the other the program in program integrity solutions Just until I get done So this section is 4.2 million dollars last year there was a core cut it was reduced from 7 million dollars Which on page? 66 we are requesting the core cut be restored. We do have a spend plan Last year we were looking the previous year. We did laps around 2.7, but you can see on page 62 our laps from 23 dropped from 2.6 down to 1.4 million last year and So we think we are on pace to pull the pay the full spend the full 7 million for 2026 All right The next section is on page 60 on page 70, excuse me This is for the M Mac provider enrollment system. It was zeroed out as a one-time We did receive funding as 7.9 million this year, but is funded as a one-time So we automatically have to cut that and you will see the NDI for the following year for 2026 on page 76 This is 6.2 million dollars for implementation of a new provider enrollment system I will tell you This is not the full cost of the system. The system will be implemented over probably a three-year period The contracts have not been finalized. We're still in these were estimates in the past We are still looking at estimates for the future and kind of where we're gonna end up We'll hopefully have some better estimates in the next couple three weeks to provide the committee for the full cost of this systemRepresentative Chappell, please proceed. So this is a new computer system? Yes. I'm glad you asked. I was getting ready to say this is one of the ones I've reviewed and said it's a go. There's been appropriate proper planning and many times you'll see that when there is a process to get Medicaid match, there is such a higher level of scrutiny in terms of the APD, which is an advanced planning document, it gets you the 90-10 match. And so there is a also a big return on investment for our provider community right here, which we hope continues to grow for Medicaid access. So that's one of the ones that we talked about beforehand, if is there any that need to move forward, and this was one that we were good with. And do we have a current system that we're utilizing right now for this purpose? I'll let Rich talk about that current system. Yeah, so currently, you know, we have a system and a federal and a partner, WEPRO, you know, that does our core claim solution and our enrollment solution that we work with, you know, our friends over at the Mobile Health Net Division. And are we going to wait to find out that the new system actually works before we turn the old system off? Yes, I mean, in a perfect world, of course. A perfect world. With that is, of course, DDI developing the system, taking the, you know, the painstaking process of, you know, using some of our providers in the community to assist us along. It's really going to automate our process. So I imagine a lot of the, from your constituents, you hear the time it takes to enroll as a Medicaid provider, some of the painstakes, the emails that go back and forth, this is going to completely automate it. They're uploading their documents, they're going to know right then and there that their stuff went through, and then it's just a processing time. And our new potential vendor is helping us meet all those federal requirements that we do a lot of the manual work on right now. So we're really looking at expediting that to, you know, make a better solution for our providers. Yeah, I've never seen a computer software vendor say, hey, this doesn't work, but why don't you buy it from us anyway? So the best practices are to make sure that it works before you flip the switch, right? No, if it makes you feel any better. Currently, Wepro, they serve one client in the entire nation, that's the state of Missouri. The solution that we're looking at has 33 states that they work Medicaid for, and they work all sorts of solutions. Right now we're just looking for the enrollment. It's a very good company with a very reputable history of being successful in the enrollment endeavors. Well, again, I just want to thank you all for the foresightedness and the consideration that maybe we ought to make sure the new one actually works before we shut the old one off. Yes, sir. That's not universally accepted practice, it seems. Thank you all. Representative Taylor, please proceed. Thank you. Following up on the same line of questioning, what role is our OA ITSD department going to play with the selection and oversight of this new system? Yes, so it'll be team effort here in the state of Missouri. So OA ITSD has been a part of this selection from the very beginning. We're actually utilizing an ASBO contract. We have an OA program manager that's working with us daily. She's been meeting with our potential vendors, going over our participating addendum. They will continue on the project through the end of the implementation on the project. So they're a part of it. We have meetings every single week, us and OA ITSD. How valuable do you find them in the process? I find them invaluable. They are extremely helpful. This is the first time I've implemented a project in a solution to this magnitude that's going to touch as many people, and their experience has been very helpful. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Representative Hausman, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. What is the ongoing cost of this the following year? The following year? Yes, what is this going to cost to implement this every year? Yes, so I'm trying to give you the best numbers that I have, ma'am. Next year, for the enrollment solution, we're looking at about twelve point four million just for the enrollment solution. Now there's going to be some other costs with our OA ITSD folks. We'll have to partner up with our folks there at WEPRO. They're going to have a work effort to make sure that our systems are compatible. They're going to have some work that exceeds the scope of their current contract. We'll have an IV&V vendor, another company that can independently verify and validate, kind of act as the mediator between us and our selected vendor to make sure we are meeting all those needs within the participating addendum in the contract, and then to help us get this certified. So the good news about this system is while there'll be an ongoing cost for FY26, FY27 I'm projecting about another seven point nine, eight million dollars just for the enrollment solution, and then there'll be an ongoing cost, probably annually, of around eight million to maintain that project for the maintenance and operations as we are ongoing with that. And so just to be clear, the next couple years there'll still be implementations, so we'll still get ninety ten on a couple of that. Yeah, so right now, the good thing is, it falls off into more of an ongoing, and some of that will be offset from that previous section, because right now, that's fun, we do have ongoing costs for our current system. Right now, ninety ten Federal-State, so you know, the line chairs is, you know, funded through the federal government, and then after we get that system certified, 75-25 match split from there on out, so. Representative Warwick, please proceed. Hello, thank you all. Thank you, Chair. So we're at 12 million at the end of implementation, roughly, 14 mil, what was the total? Yeah, so for the enrollment solution system, just to the potential vendor, 12.4 million, I think we have about, projection, maybe 19 million, if you're counting the IV&V, the OAITSD, the WEPRO contract, so there's a lot of other contracts, the project management company that we use, so there's a lot of costs associated with moving to the new system, outside of the system itself. And so the current system is costing us a what? That's a good question. Right now, it's probably five, just expenditures from previously, probably five to seven million a year to maintain, but that's also, when you look at maintenance, you're also looking at upgrades, and Rachel can tell me, I mean, like every time the feds make a change, every time there's state law change, part of that maintenance is making that change to the ongoing system. But right now, I think last year... The contract holds with Mohealthnet, they have the enrollment, the core in the enrollment, so I don't know that I see the day-to-day on the cost for that, that'd be for Todd. And so the benefit out of this is going to give us a better system for our constituents to be able to enter their information, and so will there be less, or a reduction in staff because you can do this now, that they're doing all that work for us, or how does that play in? This won't be on the eligibility side, this is on the provider side, so these are physicians, hospitals, Medicaid providers, so the savings will be to those entities. So this will be a more streamlined for those entities to enter into our system. Okay, all right. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Any other questions for members of the committee? Seeing none, please proceed. Okay, the next section is 1.2 million, the recovery audit contract. We have, this is a federally, federal requirement that Missouri has received a waiver on. We do have to keep in the budget, we haven't spent any money here. What this is, is a contingency based audit contract that has set percentages. It's really difficult for us to provide it, find some money to bid on this, we put RFPs out in the past, nobody bids on it just because the percentages are too low for the recovery. We have to keep it in here, every year we request a waiver from the feds because we don't have a provider. All right, next is on page 85, the Division of Finance and Administrative Services, the funnest division out there. 5.2 million total, 2.5 million GR, and 50.5 staff. So this is my division that I oversee, so these are your financial staff, grants reporting, they do the budget, we do accounts payable, payroll, facilities management, so all those backroom functions that nobody ever sees, that kind of falls into this section. The next section on page 91, which also reports up through the Division of Finance and Administrative Services, is a Child Welfare Eligibility Unit. So these staff are doing the 4E eligibility, so when we talked earlier on the FMAP and that eligibility and making those kids determine if they're eligible for 4E, this is the staff that do that. They also, and I'll talk a little bit more about this on the later on in the Children's Division, but there's a couple, three staff in here that also work on the Social Security, that there's kind of been some move on some legislation, we can talk a little bit more about that later on. All right, next section is page 97, this is a Compliance Services Unit. These staff also report to the Division of Finance, so these are basically compliance or audit staff, they go out and audit sub-recipients for a lot of our different providers. They also coordinate with people auditing us, so we get, we're perpetually audited, we always have about two or three different audits of the department going on between the State Auditor's Office, OIG, and the different federal entities, so these staff help coordinate those audits. The next section is a new one, last year we came to ask for additional money, this is Contracting Out Compliance Services, so we havemany different providers, especially in the TANF realm, that we have to audit. It's a federal requirement. So instead of adding additional staff as those programs ebb and flow, we can contract that out. The next core is called revenue maximization. It's one million federal. This is sort of a placeholder for us as we see additional opportunities to take a look at our program. So a lot of times, to again use TANF as an example, last year there was a potential federal reg that was really going to change our entire TANF program. Now that got pulled back. We do expect for some things to happen in that realm in the future. What this will allow us to do is we can bring in a provider, and we're probably going to look at this anyway, bring in a provider and look at our overall claiming and reporting for the TANF program, make sure we're doing everything appropriate so it's not really rev max, it's making sure what we're doing is appropriate and correct as far as all the different TANF rules and see if there's any other opportunities that we can bring to you guys to help improve the program. The next section is receipts and disbursements. It's $25.4 million, $19.5 million federal, $10.9 million other. What this section is, is as we get in funds or we draw in funds or funds are given to us that we need to return to the federal government, this gives us a section that allows us to do it. There were some supplemental, some areas that we didn't really have authority last year in. This allows us to return, once we've drawn those monies down from the feds, to return it to them if we don't need them. The next is county detention payments. This is based on statute section 211.151. What this is, is to the local juvenile agencies, juvenile detention centers, they can bill us up to $14 per day per kid. And that is set in statute. Next is divisional legal services. One moment please, I'm sorry. Representative Steinhoff, please proceed. Thank you. I'm not sure I'm in the right place with this, but didn't you ask for a supplemental on this last year? Yeah, I think there was. We were just a little bit short, yeah. And then this appropriation looks like it was cut for this fiscal year. Is that right? Yep. It was reduced from about $1.8 million down to $1.3. And you didn't ask for a supplemental this year? I think we got the supplemental, was it in 23? Last year. Okay. Yeah, it was last year. Really, what I'm getting at is it just looks like things are getting reduced, reduced. Right. And is that, like are you having to make more reductions? From FY24 to now, it seems like quite a bit. I don't know if you can speak to whether... This is all based on how much we get billed from the Juvenile Detention Center, so it goes up and down depending on those juvenile detentions. We don't do any reductions or any changes. Got it. We're just basically a pass-through on this. So you're getting what you need? Yeah, we are getting what we need, and if we don't get enough, we will come back and ask for a SUP or, you know, it's not something we really control. Okay, perfect. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So are these being, I'm sorry, are these being paid then retrospectively? No, they get paid as, you know, we do projections based on what we think we need. So no, they get paid, I believe, month by month, right? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from members of the committee? Representative Warwick, please proceed. So with that said then, so you're seeing an increase in juvenile issues that the juvenile offenders are having to request for? No, it's actually been falling down or falling slightly over the years. I think we Maybe I'm reading the wrong numbers. It looks like it maybe peaked in FY 24 at 1.8 million. Right, but I mean considerably over the last three years, I mean, we've seen a significant increase. There was an increase in the payment rate I think a couple years back. I'd have to go back and look, yeah. So the juvenile centers could ask for more, so this $14 a day was different? Yeah, I believe. Let me go back to my book. The General Assembly appropriated funds for FY 23 to provide for a daily reimbursement rate of $17 and previous to that it was $14. Very good, thank you. Sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Seeing no further questions, please proceed. All right, next is Division of Legal Services. So these are the, Terry Armistead, our interim director is here. It's $7 million, 107, so this is our legal arm of the department. So they provide legal support. They also assist with hearings, so as individuals want to have a hearing regarding their case, these are the staff that do that. They help with the Division of Children's Diversion, Children's Division around permanency, and representing the department in court. This is also where we have some of the individual investigations on individuals, not the provider but on the constituent or the individual side. Next section is page 131, Legal Services Permanency Staff. This is $9.3 million and $69 FTE, so these are the staff that actually go out and represent the Division in court and help get the children placed into permanency. So the quicker we can move them into permanency is better off for the child. A lot of times there's a lot of court legal actions they have to These are the staff that support that, both the state staff and contracted staff. Representative Fogle, please proceed. Thank you. When we look at the unexpended funds on that line, is there a bottleneck of that the need's not there, or is it that you don't have the attorneys to do the work and so we're not expending the funds appropriated? Yeah, a lot of it's trying to get our attorneys hired throughout the state, so you know it's And is that trending? I know we've had that conversation in the past. We're getting better, yeah. They are getting better. It's trending up. They're able to hire more, attend attorneys, so we're relying less on contract attorneys. Our attorneys actually went from 43 all the way up to FY 24, we had 76, and we're hopefully trending to be closer to more than that, but that's also including contractors, so that's why it's over the 69. And is there a finite amount of contracted options, or like is that also a bottleneck? It's not, well, if you're talking about a resource probably, but as far as our ability, no, we can contract with as many agencies as we can get. Yeah, I meant from a resource perspective. I mean I know we've talked about this line I think every year that I've been in this room, and it seems like we're still failing to get dollars out the door and to get the service, not failing, but that we could be doing better by getting dollars out the door. I think they're getting better, but again, it's hard to hire attorneys, both state staff and contracted, especially at the rates we pay. Okay, thanks. Representative Riggs, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you tell us, and send this to me offline, what percentage of cases Children's Division is actually appealing after there's been an entry of termination of parental rights, TPR? Had a circuit judge complain about that. I'm just trying to figure out what the numbers really are. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representative Hine, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. When you talk about the contracted attorneys, I see pay plans went in place for some of the full-time staff. When was the last time contracts have been reviewed to see if we're on target with what we're contracting? To see if it's set, right? I'm going to have Terry come up about that. I believe it is, there's a statewide contract for that, and that rate is set accordingly by the, when they bid on that, but I'll let you talk in detail. That is correct. We pay $100 per hour to our contracted attorneys. Excuse me one moment, I'm sorry. Could you make sure your microphone is on and speak into the microphone for us? Thank you. My name is Terry Armstead, and at this time we pay about $100 per hour for our contracted attorneys. We are looking at reducing our reliance on contractors just because, as Pat indicated, we have been able to recruit and retain with some of the increases that we've been allowed over the last couple of years. We went from about a starting salary of $51,000 for our attorneys and increased that substantially, and we're able to then start recruiting and retaining. We went from about a 21% turnover rate to we're at 11% now. As we become fully staffed, we're reducing our reliance on contractors. That's great. That's great. When was the last time the contract rate was reviewed? There's a regular rhythm to that at OA. It comes out for a bid, just like you can do a staff augmentation for healthcare staffing or for attorney work. If you want details on that, I think it's yearly, but I'll- Okay. Yeah, no, that's good. I'm just trying to determine, are we keeping up what we need to keep up with if we're having a hard time contracting with attorneys? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right, next section is page 139. This is for the legal services. It's permanency, non-recurring legal fees. For adoption and guardianship cases, there are some non-recurring legal fees, and this section covers those. Next section is page 144, legal services permanency for parents in Title IV-E. What this is, is Title IV reimbursement.for legal representations of parents and children's by the county. That's why it's 100% federal, it's $150,000. What we can do is if the county is doing certain actions and providing representation for the parent of the child, we can draw in 4E. It's really difficult to engage counties on this. We've got a couple areas I think we're looking at maybe Jackson County or someplace else like that, but there's so many hoops to jump through with the federal government on getting 4E and it's not a true 50-50%. A lot of times they'll only get a certain percentage because we talked about that participation rate reducing that claim. This would also be affected by that. The last section of the supports book is page 149 and this is legal services primacy courts Title IV-E. Here again, we haven't spent any of this money yet, but this would be if there's courts that had Title IV activities where we could draw down 4E dollars to them. But again, there's a lot of hoops and hurdles to get them there, they've got to meet all these federal requirements, and then it's not always a 50-50% match, it's only 25% match. So it takes a while to get these up and running, and sometimes we get halfway through and the local court's like, now this is just too much for the dollars. And that's it for the supports book. Next we will have Kim Evans, the Director of the Family Support Division, come up. We will start with book 2 of 8. Good afternoon, my name is Kim Evans and I'm the Director for Family Support Division, and you'll have to give me just a moment, I am not used to these new books too, so I'm trying to get everything together here. All right, we're going to start with book 2, page 154, and this is the Family Support Administration. So in this request, this is for the administration of the Family Support Division, which houses income maintenance, which does the benefit programs, our child support enforcement, and then also our rehab services for the blind. And then this appropriation, this also supports the field expenses and the equipment costs. One moment please. Representative, please proceed. Hi, good morning. The, or yeah, afternoon, sorry. This is another one that looks like it's been pretty steady expenditures, but declining appropriation. Has it just been right-sizing the budget? Like, do you feel like you have what you need? So yeah, we, if you looked, the appropriation has declined, but we also lost quite a bit money in 23 and 24, and so those lapses were reduced for 25. Well good, well we appreciate that, just want to make sure. Thank you, Mr. Chair. While we're on that section, I keep forgetting to point these out as we have core changes or significant core changes. If you look on page 158, there's a switch between 168 and 610. What this is, is a long time ago when we used to do child care, we did an estimate on what was child care and what was for Medicaid and SNAP, that has gone, all the remaining activities have since went on over to DESE, so this fund, we're right-sizing the fund and moving that over to 610 instead of 168. All right, moving on to page 162. This is the income maintenance field and operations staff, and this staff, we're located in all 114 counties, including the City of St. Louis, and these are the individuals who do complete the eligibility for your SNAP, your Medicaid, and your temporary assistance. These also are the staff that man the call centers, so our income maintenance staff, they do it all. We run the in-house call center, we also do the processing, and also have the resource centers in the local counties where individuals can walk in and see someone face-to-face. Thank you. Representative Riggs, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and you can answer this offline and everybody's getting this question, so what are you folks doing with regard to artificial intelligence to, number one, improve operations, number two, decrease costs? Thank you. You'll see some of this through the book, some of the enhancements that we would like, and I'll point those out. All right, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right, moving on to page 170, and this is an increase for staffing. So as we have come through the public health emergency, and as the committee knows that at one point we had some very large vacancies, we've been able to fill those vacancies and we're now to our pre-pandemic vacancy rate, which usually runs about 40 to 50 staff per month, you know, looking at just individuals who choose not, you know, find other opportunities outside the state, or as we call the silver tsunami, and I have a lot of tenured staff who choose to retire. What we're asking once, now that we have come through the public health emergency, and Director Richardson talked about this, the increase in the caseload, so we expanded the Medicaid to the individuals who are 19 to 64 year olds. We went to, previously before the pandemic, we were sitting at about 850,000 individuals being on Medicaid. Today we run between 1.3 and 1.2 and 1.3 million with the same staffing that I had previously, and then also trying to, you know, take care of the other programs, the interviews that we're required to do by FNS for the SNAP program, so we're required to do an interview for all of those individuals, and then running those resource centers. So the request that we had, the governor has recommended 55, but with along with technology, and I know that what question was earlier, we are required by our federal partners to still have a human touch to make the decisions on these final decisions. There are some when we can verify the information through our electronic verification, we can do system-wise, but when it comes to a judgment call, we still need an individual, a live person making that decision, and then SNAP also requires that we have a live person doing the SNAP interview. And I did forget to point out on a core change back on 166, this is the IM field portion of that switch from the DESE fund over to our 6-ton to reallocate those funds based on our earnings rates. Representative Riggs, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And a real quick question, you can get this to me offline as well. Let's say for purpose of argument, the feds move the goalposts away from 90% to 60%, 65, 67% reimbursement, whatever that looks like. How does that affect your operations and where do we find the money? Get that to me offline if you will. That's something we need to be wargaming now. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right, moving on to page 174. This is the income customer portal, and so what we are trying to accomplish with this is we are trying to set up a system where the individual can self-serve. So there are things that individuals can do around reporting changes, where they can apply online, they can also do their annual renewals and their mid certifications for SNAP online, and trying to reduce the number of calls and giving the participants just opportunity where, especially with the working individuals, that hours may or may not be conducive to, and they can do this at their leisure and at the time they need to. We're also looking to tie this information into our eligibility systems to reduce the manual data entry that we are doing today. So that is where we're really trying to find the efficiencies, is connecting all of our technology into our eligibility systems, reducing that manual data entry that we're doing today, so that we can free up our staff to do that processing that we need to do. Representative Steinhoff, please proceed. Thank you. I guess I wanted to ask, do you think getting this new decision item funded will help with not having the full staffing funding at all, or was that already kind of decided that those were separate needs? No, we appreciate any new FTEs that we receive, and that, you know, as we move forward, we'll just continue to build out that technology piece and be able to be able to try to help with our workflow. One thing that we do is our staff are trained in all programs, so we can, we have a model right now where we work statewide rather than requiring someone to walk into their local county, and that's the only place that they can do work. So we can support each other through a statewide caseload and be able to move staff back and forth, so we're with, you know, the any additional staff that will help us. So you're used to being flexible. Yes, we're very flexible. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Riggs to inquire. Please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And again, this is a quick question for you to get this to us offline. So, and I'm not sure where this is in the book, what are we doing for job coaching for folks to get off Medicaid and stay off Medicaid? On the Medicaid realm, I don't know that there's a lot. We do a lot more in this SNAP, the food stamp realm, and the TANF realm, and we'll talk about that a little bit when Jerrion Jaegers comes up for the Office of Workforce and Community Initiatives, but you can see some of the programs are running there to help job coach individuals that we're working with.There's not as much as there is in the SNAP or the TANF realm. Right, and I'm just trying to go back here. So what 6 million Missourians give or take, how many are on Medicaid now? About 1.3. So that's more than 1 out of every 5 of us. 1 in 4.5, approximately, on Medicaid. So this is, as of the end of January, without Women's Health is 1,267,000. With Women's Health, it was, which is sort of a, it's a Medicaid program, but a little bit different. It was 1,293,000, as of the end of January. All right, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right, we are at page 177 with the IAM Provider Portal. And this is a really unique opportunity that Missouri has developed with our medical community. And so what we have done is we're going out and we're working with our clinics, our, the federally qualified clinics, the hospitals, rural health clinics, where we have a dedicated team that is taking care of the needs of these individuals. So if they have patients that come in that have urgent needs, reporting pregnancies, so we can quickly get the women on to Medicaid for Pregnant Women, reporting newborns, and just working through issues that they have. This provider portal allows us to talk securely, because we are dealing with HIPAA information, allows us to talk securely with these providers, allows them a place to quickly get us information so that we can take care of the medical needs very quickly. Right now, I would not call it a system that we have, because it's sitting on top of a SharePoint site. So we're looking for some more automation that we can also tie this portal into our eligibility systems in the same reporting that we are trying to achieve on the IAM Portal, where a participant can come in. When things are reported to us from these medical clinics, that it'll also update our eligibility systems and lessen the need for that data entry. Representative Christensen, please proceed. Thank you, Vice Chair. Just real quick, do you know the wait times for most people, especially with women that are pregnant and trying to get on Medicaid and their baby? So, the application processing time is, federally, is 45 days. We try to do that, less than that. We try to do it within 15 days. The newborns, some of this is when the timely, when it's reported also. So some individuals may be on Medicaid, and because they're on Medicaid, they don't think to report that they're pregnant, or just think that we automatically know to put the baby on. So sometimes there's a delay when folks report to us. This is the really nice thing about working with the providers and the medical clinics, because they do report to us quicker. I think the quickest report of a newborn has been 15 minutes. But this baby had some critical needs, and we were able to very quickly get the child on and get those needs met, so. So with the customer portal, will this help so they're not having to truly just call in and wait on the phone for two hours, so they can just go on the portal and then? Yes, they will be able to do this 24-7, 365. And their information is secure. They can get the information that they need. They can apply, they can report their changes, they can do their annual renewals and their SNAP, mid-cert, recertifications. We're getting, SNAP is not completely in yet. Once we get into, get it developed, we will have that in. But they're gonna be able to self-serve. So there would be no reason for them, in some cases, to even, you know, they could just report and not have to wait on the phones, or come into an office, or mail that in. So they can do everything online. So with the FTE, I'm sorry to go back, just to 170, will that help with the people overlooking the customer portal? Is that gonna be intertwined with that? So everything coming in, so some of the requests that we're making for technology is tying in this, this technology we have, like the portals, and some of the electronic verification that we'll talk about in just a bit, tying that into our eligibility systems, where there is no data entry by staff. So freeing up staff then, to be able to handle the walk-ins and the calls, where right now, we have to manually enter all that information. Right, okay, thanks. Representative Fogle, please proceed. Thank you, as a follow-up to that, I think in years past, we've gotten a one-pager that included information about wait times, processing times for application, by program that your department administers, or the FST administers. And I know it's, looking at the program book, there's part of that information, but I don't see that information in totality. Could we get that information for each program administered, and then also any federal restrictions or guidelines on timeline of processing? Could we have that all in one place? We can, and we can get that to you. And I'm so happy, because I know you've seen the data before, but we have even enhanced our data reporting now, so we can give you a little more up-to-date than we had before. Great, thank you. All right, page 180. This is the Change and Innovation Renewal, Cost to Continue. And in this request, there are quite a bit of different pieces to this. And if you will look, oh, it's in our budget book, I mean, in the other book. Oh, sorry, page 181, if you look under, at the top, this is where we're moving into some of that integration. So our famous MEDIS file net, which is Electronic Content Management, where we hold our records, connecting those databases and sharing those. We also have requested money for the analysis of Jefferson City Processing Center, and that's the unit that actually supports the medical providers to help our staff quickly be able to answer questions on the phone. We've done some policy manual rewrite and improved a word search function, where very quickly, they can go in and type in a word, and it brings up the manual, including all of our memos that are attached, so that they don't have to go several different places searching for things. Also looking at a resource transformation assessment, and that is going on now, to make sure that we are running our resource centers most effectively, and are we in the proper place. So we traditionally have our resource centers in the county seat, but that may not be always the place where people are doing their business, or the doctors are located, especially in some of the rural counties, and I can think of a couple where we may not be best suited to serve our individuals. And then also then providing a consultating support. So as we have moved into this statewide model and into this tasking system, this has been a big change for our management staff, and so just continuing to, as we finish up all of this technology, is training our managers to know how to manage this work, and the dashboards that we've created, and the KPIs that we've now implemented for our staff to make sure that we're running as efficiently as possible. Representative Boggs, you have a question, please proceed. Yes, so going back to 181, I kind of had this question a little bit earlier, but now it seems a little more appropriate. So whenever we come, we talk about databases. My first couple years here, we had the opioid, and we had the database kind of for that. So I realize this is different, but whenever we talk about databases and sharing, so we have the whole, you know, patient, you know, HIPAA. So how to, can you teach me how to jump rope here real quick? Sure, so when we're talking about databases in this, this was in, this was within Family Support Division. So we have things like our Genesis system, which is our call center system that we use that also helps support the IVR, the Interactive Voice Responses. When someone calls in, it's like a great big answering machine. And then also our eligibility systems, tying all of those together. Okay, and so how closely do we work with the surrounding states? Because I know you can't get away from that question when you have St. Louis, Kansas City, and then I'm from the Southwest Missouri. I'm just a few feet from three other states. So kind of how does that, and I realize this, this may be something you want to answer offline, but just out of curiosity, because a lot of my calls end up being tied to Oklahoma or tied to like, so. I'll tell you, remind me of that when we get to electronic verification and we'll talk about it there. Okay, very good, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay, page 183, and this is our Income Maintenance Call Centers. So this is the call center that folks most talk about. There are wait times on those call centers. We are working to, you know, as we move staff, we have, since we have talked last year in the budget committee, we have implemented a program where we have staff who are watching the flow of the work. We are now that sophisticated, and I'm very proud to be able to say that we do have the dashboards built, we can watch our work minute to minute now. And so this group is continually moving staff back and forth, so as we see the wait times get higher on the call center, we'll move staff over there. Once we can get the call wait times down, we try to keep the call wait times at around 30 minutes. Lunch periods, we know, go up. That's when a lot of people like to access the phones. But then when we can, we move our staff back over to processing. And so, you know, when you look at the SNAP call center piece where we have to do interviews, we mail out anywhere from about 25 to 30,000 recertifications every month. So these are people who are on SNAP, who it's now time for them to review. And they have to call back in between the 1st and the 15th.and complete a phone interview, or have to walk into one of our resources centers and do an interview for their SNAP to get them at the same time that they normally get their benefits. So if I get my benefits at the 10th of the month, I have to complete that recertification interview by the 15th of the month to ensure that I get my benefits timely the following month. If I do not meet that time frame, then it's no guarantee I'll get them on the 10th, but as long as I complete it, I will get my next month's food stamps within that month. So as you can see, we're trying to, and that does not include any brand new people who apply for SNAP benefits, and this is SNAP only. Medicaid does not require for us to do an interview. So we're taking the staff that we have and trying to meet the demands of the call center, and then also meet the demands of folks walking in, and then all of the other work that we have coming in also. So that was why our request for the additional staff. And if you're looking at the budget books, just to explain this a little bit, there's multiple different pages. So the call centers is one section, but you'll see multiple different pages with the different staff on there. So like the the TANF is 13, you'll go on to the next section on page 189 which is 30, and that's for the AEG population. The next section is on page 195, SNAP. So they're kind of broken out by appropriations based on earnings, but please note they're all the same staff. It's not like we only have 13 staff doing TANF and 300 doing SNAP and only so many AAG. They take the call that comes before them, this is just sort of breaking out by federal, so I didn't want that to confuse anybody. But overall there's around, my phone shut down again, 438 staff totaled for all sections. Representative Steinhoff, if you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. That was kind of the question I was getting at. So when you were talking about you might have people that are processing, they move to the call center, you, it's the same like call number, but this person might be a SNAP person, this person might be Medicaid. So does the funding reimbursement have to do with like how many calls that day were SNAP and how many, like are you having to do all of that? No, so what the staff do, we have this huge thing, a cost allocation plan, it's that thick and this huge system that does that. What happens is in the IM world, staff get what's called a random moment time study. So we do not make staff keep track of all their time and said I did so many SNAP, Medicaid. What they do is they get an email. They have to answer that email that says okay, at 238 what were you working on? And you could say SNAP, you might say SNAP and Medicaid, you might say SNAP Medicaid, and TANF you might say Medicaid. That goes into sort of a sampling database and it calculates then spits out okay, 40% of our time is spent on SNAP, 45% on Medicaid, and you know roughly around 15% on all others. That's actually probably 45 SNAP, 50 Medicaid, and about 5% all other. And so that that kind of spits it out into a system. So maybe you can help me understand when you're requesting so many FTE in each of these line items, are you requesting more FTE than you really need but you, it's almost like an over-appropriation of FTE? No, no the FTE is based on the best guess on earnings that they were broken out a couple years ago. So you'll have the staff up in income maintenance, those are kind of doing eligibility, but some of those take calls up there too, right? And so depending on staff and how they're doing is, and what we're doing is kind of how we break out our staff and charge them by different appropriation sections and different federal funds. So a lot of these, especially we'll just say the maintenance call centers, they all seem to have a lapse, they all seem to be short on like, I'm sorry to say the FTE, it looks like you have positions unfilled. Is that what the lapse is? Is the unfilled positions? That's vacancies. We're doing a lot better job as Kim said earlier on replacing it, but our turnover rate's been around 30%. So it takes a little bit to get them, we're doing a better job replacing them but we're still having the turnover. So of your call centers, how short are you on staff do you think? I mean is it the actual numbers that we can see in this, in these line items? Well and I think the 55 staff we're asking up front are gonna help with that eligibility in the call centers. So, but that's in a different section of the budget, right? Yeah but they all tie together, right? Okay. So you, yeah I get what you're saying. And Kim maybe can correct me or kick me under the table if I'm wrong, but there are very few staff that just sit there and do eligibility, right? So I've got eligibility staff up in that section where I'm asking 55, right? We get a huge influx of calls, Kim calls out or sends out whatever through her genesis and say, hey I need these three offices on the phones ASAP to help cover the calls. So then we just have to kind of bill them out differently. But so if you had all of your FTE filled, you probably would just have people having a regular job that weren't overworked, right? I mean, it sounds like you're, it sounds like you're making by, by getting people to do jobs that maybe are not in there. Right, you want to take it? So when we're on the call, we're on the call center, it is actually doing processing work. So whether I am working in a resource center and I see one face to, someone face to face, whether I am on the call center that day answering questions, doing interviews, taking changes from someone, we are processing right on the phone when we have that individual on there. So we're doing something, it's called first touch resolution, so you do everything you can to take care of that person's needs with any of their programs while you have them there with you. And then you do have, if we do not have to have everyone on the phone, then we do have people who are sitting in offices who are processing that are not on the phone. But at any point in time, I could pull anyone to do the phones or I could pull them to processing and we cross-train them through the, through all programs. Okay. And to also answer your question, but I think the answer is yes. If we could get 100% of these staff filled plus the 55 that the governor gave us, we would be in a lot better shape. The other thing to remember is we still have a 30% turnover. Every time staff turns over, you get four to six months, you know, even if they're processing at what, month three or taking phone calls at month two, they're not fully effective until you get six to eight months into the year. So that kind of hurts us too because it makes a difference if you have a hundred staff sitting there that have been there three or four years or 20 or 30 years versus having a hundred staff sitting there that been there six months. Your productivity, the longer they're with the agency, increases dramatically and their ability to handle, especially when there's more complicated cases, that staff's ability because they've seen that before, right? And so if you got a new staff, even when they're fully trained, they're gonna see cases they haven't seen before, that kind of slows it down, so. And so Ari, is the new pay plan, do you think, gonna help with the call center staffing? Okay. I know you said that in general at the beginning. It will help because, you know, especially with our tenured staff, you know, when you have someone walking in the door that makes the same amount that you do and you're doing, basically because you're trained and tenured, you're doing more of the load because the newer staff are just trying to get their feet on the ground. You know, that is probably one of the things that we do here is, you know, what can you do about that? Thank you. Thanks for your question. Thank you, Mr. Chair. What's the match rate on the call centers as far as the federal, state? We're roughly, overall, I think our net earnings is around 58%. It is a combination. SNAP is 50-50. Medicaid on the eligibility side is 75%. TANF is 100% federal or 100% GR, however you want to look at it, because it's a block grant. So their overall effective rate is around, I think off the top of my head, around 58%. I think we got it in here somewhere, so let me take a look. I think you said SNAP was 50-50, but if I'm looking at it right on 195, it, I mean, I guess it's close, but it's not, looks like you're a little heavy on the federal if it's truly 50-50. Hold on, let me get to 195. Yeah, that's probably a little bit heavy, but I think overall that's, it's more aligned with our, I think when that got broke out, more aligned with our sort of overall effective earnings across the board. Why is the dollar, so the dollars are pretty close, the FTE seems to be a little bit more out of, you know, the, you know, I think as a percentage probably a little bit greater, you know, 140 versus 166. Any thoughts on that? I would have to go back when it got broken out a couple years ago, that was during the process, so I didn't, you know, there were some different reports and different things being run at that point. I'd have to go back and look, but if that's something, you know, if we need to go back and look at rebalancing these, we haven't looked at it for a couple years, we could go back and look at rebalancing them off out between the sections. And then TANF shows no GR, but that's because it's the block grant. Right, it's 100% federal until you run out of block and then it's 100% GR. And what was the explanation on the AEG, I guess because we're using FMAP, the enhanced FMAP on that, is that what, is that why there's no general revenue showing? On the AEG? 189, I'm sorry. 189, let me pull that section up. I think, yeah, there, if you go back, it's, yeah, I'm pretty sure if you go back in the details on that one, they have the enhanced FMAP, yep, there it is, the 2466, so it's, it shows up as federal, but that is the enhanced FMAP in there on page, if you look at 189.The federal funds down below is $610, $1610 now. So what is the, when we run out of that next year, whenever it is, is that $9010 or the regular FMAP or $5050? No, that'll be probably closer to the $7525. 75% federal, 25% GR on eligibility. Because it's an administrative piece. Even with the AEG, you don't get $9010 on the administrative piece. It falls in line with the rest of the Medicaid programs. OK. All right. I think that's to the extent of my question on that. Anything further? Representative Martin, you have something? You may proceed. Yeah, for inquiry. A few moments ago, you mentioned you gave some numbers, $850,000 on Medicaid before COVID. And we've increased that. We expanded Medicaid in 2021, correct? $1.2 to $1.3 million now. Correct. Is that correct on that? Yeah. And these programs are safety net programs. Is that right? Correct. Safety net. How many people are coming off of these where they've had a safety net and then they're, are you seeing more people getting this aid and then they're coming off and getting better, higher paying jobs and providing for their needs? We have some information around churn that we're really starting to dig into that we could provide for you if that would be helpful. That'd be helpful, yes. And we've broken it down into three months, six months, and 12 months. So we can show the increments of when individuals are coming back on. OK, I appreciate that. Thank you. All right, page 214. This is the income maintenance call centers. This was a one-time appropriation. But you will see on page 219, we have a new decision item that we are asking for the cost to continue. Go ahead. Oh. You can finish. So for the automated IVR, this is also, and this is where we talked about sort of like the, is the, you know, a recording where they can call in. They're going to be able to, this is also accessible 24-7, 365, where they're going to be able to do complete applications by voice. They'll also be able to report changes. They'll do their annual renewals in their mid-cert for SNAP. They can ask for administrative hearing. They'll be able to ask for a replacement for the EBT cards. And that information, then, we are looking to tie that into our eligibility system so that we will not have to do that manual entry. But this is another entry point for individuals where they can access this. The wonderful thing about this automated IVR, there are no wait times. So as they're coming through the IVR and they choose to use this option, there is not a wait time for them to have to use this. It automatically starts whatever process that they want to start. I'd like to chat about it. Lewis asked about that. Yeah, go ahead. All right. Page 222 is public acute hospitals. So this funding is for the public acute hospital partnerships. And they assist us with the eligibility determinations for the MohealthNet programs. And we have the partnerships with MU Hospital and University Health, which is normally known as Truman Hospital. And so those individuals are working on. Truman Hospital is one of our larger contributors in our provider world of individuals who apply, who have urgent cases. And so we have trained that staff to be able to do that work and to support us and help us. Page 227 is our family support division training. And this request is for, this is how we train our staff. So we do have a new model that we will be introducing in just a few months. And this is based on the fact that we've learned some lessons during COVID. We've also listened to our staff that they want a more self-directed training. So we have some individuals who really get this job really quickly. And if you have someone who needs a little bit more attention, the trainers have to slow down. So in this, we've built in competency tests. There are real live work now that they do when they're doing their on-the-job training. Rather than us, what I used to call, we gave them vanilla. And so when they came into the real world and finished their training, it was a very shocking response for them because there is nothing normal about training when you get the hardest case you've ever gotten the first day that you have to talk to somebody. So what we've tried to do is try to really introduce them to the real world during their on-the-job training. It is a 13-week training because we do chain all programs. And it's pretty intensive. So that's why sometimes individuals do not stay with us. It's just there is a lot to this. None of our programs behave the same way. So that would be too easy. But we have listened to our staff. We're doing a lot of Webex training, online training. But they also help us train. This unit also helps us train community partners, stakeholders, and then just any additional training outside of the program training that needs to be done with staff. Page 233 is Electronic Benefits Transfer, or EBT. And this is how individuals get their benefits for SNAP and the cash grants for temporary assistance. And we actually contract with a company, FISE Funds, to be able to issue those benefits. So that's the cards that individuals get that they can take to the stores and get their cash or SNAP benefits. Representative Christensen, please proceed. Just real quick, and you can give this to me, or to the whole committee offline. On the lapse funding on page 234, do you guys know what federal funding, because I know that there's two funds that we take out of. I would just be curious what funds we lapsed out of that. Yeah, we can take a look at it. The lapse is just based on, so this is EBT. It's just based on the card usage, but primarily it's gonna be the SNAP 50-50 admin. But yeah, we can get that to you. Okay, perfect, thanks. And this is not the actual benefits. This is just paying for the transaction. Yes, yeah, I was just wanting to know like the lapse and everything. So yeah, no worries there. Representative Owen, please proceed. On your EBT cards, does your system have certain safeguards to protect against them using it for purposes that would not be acceptable to your program? So the SNAP benefits, there are limitations on the SNAP on the cash. So the temporary assistance is a cash grant. Sure. And so once they withdraw that money, we lose control of where that money is spent. But we also do restrict where they can get cash from, like what point of service that they could use. Okay, so you do have some controls in the different programs when an EBT card's used to make sure that they're not using it inappropriately. Yes, yes we do. But a lot is set out on the national basis, because this FIS system isn't just ours, it's like a national. So you're at the mercy of what they decide is appropriate or not. We can do changes outside of that, but it's either manual or it's gonna cost us. I was gonna say maybe expensive, I would think. So yeah, if we go outside of that national model that they have, and there's different options for different states, but if you go too much far outside of those restrictions, it gets a little bit more expensive. Well, at least that's somewhat of a safeguard. Right, there are safeguards in there, sort of whatever we wanna pick from, but if you go outside of what you pick from, then it's gonna be costly. Right, thank you. All right, next one is mine. This is the Double Up Food Bucks Heartland Program. This is money that was appropriated last year as one-time $2 million, and this is going to the Mid-America Regional Council. This is to sort of expand the dollars available when they spend their SNAP benefits at farmers markets, farm stands, mobile markets, some of the healthier outlets for food. And just so you know, I'm gonna say at this one time, but not every time, you're gonna see a lot of these programs in here that are zeroed out their one time. Typically what happens is these are appropriated by the General Assembly. They're appropriated as a one-time. We typically do not request that they be renewed. We let them zeroed out because it's a General Assembly decision, that way it kind of leaves it up to them, you guys again, that decision-making process on whether you wanna continue these or not. So that's kind of been the trend over the last few years. Representative Riggs, please proceed when ready. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please get this to me offline as well. Do we evaluate what happens with these when we send these out? Yeah, we can get you that offline. But yeah, we do put a lot of performance metrics. Sometimes it's difficult because that program's only out there one year by the time it's done. And we don't really have a lot of authority to go back and get stuff from them if our contract is expired. But we do collect what performance metrics. And we do monitoring. So like you saw earlier in the DFAS section, we have some contract monitoring. But we also do programmatic monitoring across the board, too. But we can get some information for you on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the next one is page 244. It's the Summer EBT Program. And this is for the administration of the program. This appropriation provides the salaries and associated expenses for DSS to administer the Summer EBT Program. And if you'll look on page 249, then this is the core for the Summer EBT Program. And 249 is the, well, 249 in those two previous sections are administration, so this pays the contractor. If you go to page 254, this is the actual distribution of those benefits. The Summer EBT Program, for some reason, was run differently at a federal level. All of our other EBT benefits do not run through the state budget.This caught us by surprise last year we had to do a supplemental. We borrowed some of Department of Health and Senior Services authority in their program because this is run instead of like all the other SNAP programs is run similar to the Child and Adult Nutrition Program which that sets in DHSS. So what this is do we'll have a supplemental and then we'll have this funding so you can kind of break them out separately. But this is kind of an odd thing for us to put this in our budget. All right page 257 is the Polk County Trust and this trust is utilized for the benefit of people of Polk County and it's set up by the donor of the trust who is David Delarue. This is probably one of the simplest ones that we will present today. All right. Representative Prouty please proceed. Thank you and I meant to ask this yesterday last yesterday last year but we you know we're rolling for this even if it is a trust I'm assuming it's held by the treasurer is something we still need to appropriate even though it's quite literally specified for this particular yes it's it's run through us the way the trust is set up and the check comes into us we get the check in we make sure the trust has got the right protocols in place and then we basically just distribute this right back out to a local account trust account the way that it comes to you is that all is that through statute I think it's the way it's set up in the trust just the way the trust okay I'm the trustee and and not something we did rather than having to go through the treasurer yeah yeah I was just curious thank you okay on page 262 is famous this is our family assistance management information system this is our legacy system that houses snap and the adult Medicaid programs and temporary assistance on page 268 excuse me one moment representative Hausman please proceed really quick question why is if it's snap for this for the family assistant management information system why is the GR more than federal just purely out of curiosity because it's 50 is that correct so the the famous system is actually snap adult Medicaid TANF blind pension okay thank you so it thank you for clarifying that and page 268 is metis this is the Missouri eligibility determination and enrollment system and this houses our magi which is the family medical groups including Medicaid for pregnant women and the expansion group and so this is our newest eligibility system and as director backs was talking earlier you'll see some requests coming up that we're gonna we will be evaluating you know going forward of making sure that we have a system that ties together where it's you know it's a easy flow for our staff and we can serve our Missourians better by making better workflows so we will be looking at the metis system going forward okay page 301 is a request for metis adult Medicaid and this is some of the evaluation we'll be looking at this is a very difficult program to implement because of the movement some customization that will have to happen around our adult Medicaid programs we do run a medical review team for the disabled for individuals who apply and are not receiving Social Security we do our own disability so we'll have to build out that piece we'll also have to build in a special piece for the spin down program because of our status with Medicaid so we will look to and it's a very manual process right now for someone meeting their spin down every month and so we'll be looking at building the customization to make this more of an automated system so it is very complex within adult Medicaid I believe there's seven or eight different programs that use different logic as far as the resource limits the eligibility factors you have Pat was talking about blind pension we have that rolled in there and so it will be to tie it all in will be very complex to build so we just want to make sure that we're utilizing the money in the best way possible page 308 is the metis continue cost to continue and in this this was excuse me one moment representative Riggs you're recognized for inquiry Thank You Mr. I'm sorry to do this to you so I'm just really kind of curious here you got seven to eight different whatever and it's up to the department to figure out how to make all that stuff mesh yeah I think there's more so we've got two different programs systems the famous in the metis and among those they're kind of broken out by different components within there I think what we're gonna do is take a step back and how do we integrate it all into one system and talk about it and globally because instead of having famous metis you know and famous you have the different programs and all the different appropriations how do we basically integrate them all together but yeah we have all the different section and depending on the expenditures that's which section we had and that's our nickel correct that's that's up to us to figure out how these things work yes integrate right and that's where we're taking a step back and trying to figure out that best plan forward right and if there's any way to do this and I want to put him on your plate that already is to figure out how many hours of staff time it takes us to do that for other folks maybe I'm not falling to do what components to make all this stuff work somebody's gonna have a puzzle through this right I'm taking a while guys are not doing it for free yeah okay okay it's given me a headache listening to this and I don't have to deal with it every day so I don't know what right how you guys do it Thank You mr. chairman representative Steinhoff you're recognized for inquiry thank you I'm just curious is part of this complicated because of movers have some of these things been separated out that were combined before no I mean it's a different format so it's different for us but I think these appropriations I think there was a desire in the past to see all the different appropriations broken down all the different components I'll just tell you I've been doing it for 29 years and this seems to swing pendulums right so I think when we first started back in 96 we were broken out more and then I got it consolidated okay now we're broken out more it a lot of it depends on what your guys's preference how you want to see the budget what you want to see things I just didn't know if some of these in the past might have had the different funds you know listed at the bottom but it was just call center and I don't like that current these different breakouts were there in the past okay so you know but I think it's we're learning on this new movers and a new this new presentation I don't know if we can find a different way to present this next year but there are a lot of things that everybody wants to see broken out that's why we got to do it yeah it's good to be transparent I just didn't know if that's why we're having some of these questions is just we're looking at it differently from our lens you all were doing it in the background all the time but thank you yeah so just wanted to add real quick to representative Riggs question that one of the reasons we're taking a step back as well is that we see a lot of change on the federal horizon with regards to Medicaid eligibility guidelines and what might happen with that funding piece and to do anything and start a huge project prematurely when we're one of those states has that has invested over time and many helping many of our most vulnerable populations but that creates special income limits for children with developmental disabilities for married couples where one enters a nursing home for our population where they have a spend down for our population where they don't have Social Security disability yet those all have special requirements and that's great that we do them but there is separate sections of requirement at the federal level for each of those categorical needs of eligibility and as we watch that federal landscape change with regards to Medicaid it's one of the things we don't want to jump ahead we also want to take a look at how large is that population and how much efficiency are we in a gain in terms of movement of that population into a more integrated system obviously the larger the population typically you're growing ABD your age-blind and disabled population because of the aging baby boomers might get you more in terms of what you're trying to accomplish so those are the types of things that and we'll try to calculate the hours that we spend on that as best as possible but it's it's really probably a lot from the leadership team level right next section is on page 311 this is a menace adult Medicaid section 30 million dollars this is a placeholder Kim talked about a little bit what was left over on famous is one of the programs we are going to take a look at what the best platform is in here again look at trying to integrate famous and metis all under one system because whatever we move forward with this may not be either platform famous or medicine may be a total different platform so trying to integrate it and look at it globally instead of the individual pieces page 314 is our eligibility verification and this request supports the our electronic verification that we use so we we go to different sources to get electronic verification that we're allowed to use for the programs this reduces the barrier for the participanthaving to go out and get pay stubs, verify different things for us, and then allows us to have a quicker processing time. And then also looking to tie this into our eligibility system, again, to lessen the need for the manual entry. Representative Christensen, you're recognized for inquiry. Thank you so much. Would you be able, for the third-party vendors, would you be able to give us a list at some point? Of course, I know you can't right now. And then I do actually have a question. So with some of these third-party vendors, do they get paid for every person that they talk with? Or how does their contracts work? So they're different contracts. And what we can do is we can give you, if you'd like, we can give you a breakdown of the pricing of how each contract and the providers that we use within the electronic content management. Some of these are, I mean, I'm sorry, in the middle of the electronic verification. Some of the information that we gather is actually in-house. Department of Revenue, Department of Labor, Lottery, we gather that information and utilize that also. Okay, perfect, thank you. Page 321 is the food nutrition. And this houses our SNAP-Ed that provides information on nutrition. And then also the SNAP Outreach that works with local agencies and advocates and community and faith-based organizations. Next section is on page 327. This is Missouri Work Assistance Program, or Missouri Work Program, Save Our Sons and Sisters. This is through the Urban League of America to help economically disadvantaged men and women living in the St. Louis metropolitan region to find jobs and provide the opportunity to earn livable wages. There was a reduction last year due to some one-time funding added. Representative Murray, please proceed. Yeah, and thanks so much for your last point where you say a little bit about the reduction. Can you speak to the effectiveness of the program? It looks like year over year, going back until like 2023, they've had actual expenditures of at least $1 million. So I'd be interested to know just some of the positive impacts that that program has had from your perspective. We can get that for you. I've got it in here too, out of here, but I lost my place when I switched the book over. But we can get you all the performance metrics around this. Okay, and it can be found in the program book? Yeah, some of them can. If I can find, I lost my spot. 162. Yeah, so if you look on pages 162 of Save Our Sons, it kind of lays out number of participants that completed the program, number of participants that obtained part-time or full-time employment. So like they had 1,100 participants, 310 were able to get full-time appointments, number of placed in prison, apprenticeships, number of SOS, again, Save Our Sons, employed for 90 days. So if there's information that, if you go out online and look at all that and if you want more, you can let us know, flip us an email and we'll get it for you. Yeah, I certainly appreciate that, and I think that work can be life-changing for sure. And can you elaborate, you say it was cut down because it was a one-time? The last year it was at 1.5 million. It was 500,000 of that was reduced due to one-times, and then during the governor's recommendation, he reduced an additional 500,000, just sort of consistent with other type of funding out there. Okay, thank you. And thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Prouty, you're recognized for inquiry. Thank you, along the same lines of questioning, they submit their data and statistics directly to the department? Yeah, that would be collected through our staff, yeah. Okay, and you'll send us that? We can send that to you. We will go ahead and just follow up. Some of it's in our program description book outline, but we can go ahead and send it for all these programs in a big packet if you'd like. I would, thank you. All right, next section is for the Total Man program on page 334. This is a program administered by Total Man to foster healthy relationships by strengthening families through developing parenting skills and employment placement for fathers. So it's sort of a fatherhood support to help these fathers, and the more we can help them gain employment, have that relationship with the child, results in more child support and a better relationship with that father and child. And it's $100,000 TANF. Next section is Mo Work Programs Higher Aspirations. This is one-time funding from last year of $100,000. It was zeroed out as one-time funding. Its connections to success provide funding. Higher Aspirations support young African-American males eight to 18 for social, academic, and emotional, preparing them for employment, civic service, and high school completions in higher education. Representative Riggs, I believe, has a question regarding the previous item, the Total Man program. Please proceed. Each one of these, as you go through it, if you could tell us geographically where these are located. The first one was St. Louis. Total Man didn't say where it is. I'm just trying to figure out geographically where these are located. Can you get that to us offline? Yeah, we'll get that to you offline. But I appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Next is a Fathers and Family Support Program. Again, this is sort of a child support sort of support center to foster healthy relationships between absentee fathers and their kids by providing parenting skills, wraparound services, and employment services. It's $1 million TANF. Next section, core, is page 355, Future in Action. This is a mentoring program along the lines of the last two that provides education program that helps with college and career readiness, professional development, STEM, and career development. It's $330,500 federal. Next section is Youth Enrichment Center, Vernon City. This was zeroed out as a one-time. This is for construction of a youth facility in Vernon County, a youth enrichment facility. So this was a capital improvements. This was 750,000 GR from last year that was funded. Next section is the I.M. King Foundation on page 365. Again, this is zeroed out. The I.M. King Foundation is a non-profit organization in Kansas City to education, inspire and empower young men to become community leaders. This was $50,000 last year. Next section is Integrated Student Support. This is ongoing TANF funding, $800,000. This provides integrated student support services to connect community resources to students and families with need. These are in Boonville, Lincoln, and McDonnell County School Districts. Next section is page 377. This is ongoing funding of $700,000 TANF for the Drew Lewis Foundation to educate and empower and support underserved families through personalized programs, to coaching to increase quality of life and build resilient communities. Representative Christensen, please proceed. Thank you so much. Okay, just real quick, and I assume you'll have to get this to me, but for receipts, does the Drew Lewis Foundation tell us how much they're spending on their administrative fees? I do not know we can get that. They would, yes, they would in our contracts. We would know that. I do not know that off the top of my head. And then just so I don't, because I know there's some others, I'm just gonna, on book three, there's a few. The ones that are really directed towards organizations, of course, not with DSS, but ones we contract out with, that would be something I would like to know, so I don't have to interrupt you each time. But just how much, I'm curious how much they're spending on the programs versus administrative fees, because we don't want- We can get to you that for each of these programs. These, yeah, so we've got a lot of these programs that have been added to our plate over the last few years. But yeah, if you want a listing program by program on that administrative component, we can provide that. That would be perfect. I really appreciate it, thank you. Yep. All right, next section is the temporary assistance on page 384. This is a cash assistance line. So this is the cash assistance program for TANF. So this has been around for, since 1996, AFDC program. Next section is HOPE Mission, page 391. Again, this is a one-time funding. The HOPE is for housing options provided for the elderly. It's a non-profit corporation that is dedicated to providing services for housing insecurity and financial instability among low-income older adults. Next section is page 1398, Morning Store Life Center. This is for the Morning Store Baptist Church to provide program to support implementation of food security and other family sports necessary for healthy and productive families. This is a one-time appropriation, but this was funded in 23, 24, and 25. Next one, and I always say this name wrong, but I'll see if I can get it right. Riverview West Fluorescent, Fluorescent, Fluorescent. West Fluorescent, I always do that. I know I do it, but I, it's a mental block at this point. Provides funding. The fluorescent lights are getting to you. It's Fluorescent, yeah. Yeah. Provides funding for this program dedicated to community development activities that include housing, neighborhood improvement, and economic development. And again, this is a one-time appropriation. It was core reduces one time, but it's been funded 23 through 25, and it was $250,000.thousand last year. Page 409. Excuse me, one moment. Representative Riggs, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And this is a generalized question. We're running through a book of all sorts of really good programs. Has anybody on there actually done a sort of a gap analysis to figure out where in the state things are going, as opposed to where things aren't, and how do we evaluate basically what these programs give us? Something as simple as what zip codes do you serve? If we've got folks tripping over each other doing the same basic things, why are we doing that as a state? I would say on some of the ones where we bid out, we probably do some like regional, like on the Missouri Work Assistance. On these, a lot of these one-time programs, we can take a look at doing a gap, but these are usually funded by the, I mean, these are usually added by the General Assembly. So we don't have a lot of say on whether or not to push these out the door, as long as they are meeting the TANF requirements. But I know on our other programs, we do do that gap analysis to see where our staff are and where we are bidding that money out for those RFPs. Well, this is an evergreen issue. This is my seventh year, six year on budget, and we hear the same thing year in, year out. Money over here, money over here, money over here. So I'm just trying to figure out how we basically gauge success of what we fund. Deliverables. What does that look like? How many people are affected by this? How many people are pulled out of whatever situation they're in? I've had more in front of me scoring mini-grants from Missouri Humanities Council for 2,500 bucks than I have in this budget book. And that's not on you necessarily, that's just the process that we choose to implement here. But it's a real problem when I see this and we're counting all this stuff up. Where's the bank for the buck? And these are great programs, don't get me wrong, but how do we measure the effectiveness of these programs in totality? Yeah, we can pull the performance metrics. I think that a lot of them do the same thing, but a lot of them do different things. And it's really hard to, you know, measure, you know, a fatherhood support program versus, you know, maybe a food insecurity program against each other. Again, like I said internally on the programs that we bid statewide, there's more of a gap analysis, but it's something we can take a look at if you'd like. Well sure, I'll give you an example. So Hannibal Free Clinic, I was part of the group that stood that up, we measured by the number of folks who aren't going into the emergency department. That's how we measure that. These are people getting primary care for free from their doctors. It's volunteer except for the hospital provides the executive director. That's it. And save two, three million dollars a year on that. Why are we not sharing these stories in budget? That just, that really gets at what we do here is oversight, and we're not doing it. Sorry, and it's just my cross to bear, I guess, but six years I've heard this. I actually agree with you, and I think this has a lot to do with like the history and the nature of how these appropriations worked, because I didn't, I come from a not social services budget, so this is my first time like really diving into the social services budget this year. And one of the things that I asked about was, you know, this is a lot of different organizations, and so as funding becomes available, and as legislators choose to make these investments, some of them happen for a year, some of them happen for two years, and so you don't have a trend. They're all for good purposes, but there is not statewide-ness in terms of what you're doing in any of these programs, and most of them there's not statewide-ness. And then the organization, how do you compare that to other organizations when it's not a state-run organization? So I think to do the lift of kind of saying, evaluating what are these state investments, what's the difference that they're making kind of across the board, we can do an individual kind of outcome of the funding that's received one time, but if you wanted to see like a gap of where are the other counties in terms of implementing that, and is there a resource there, and is it state-funded or is it not, that would be more of a larger effort and gap analysis that you would need to look at. I can think of, for the the... And I'm gonna have to, we're gonna have to come back to this because we're starting a meeting here in about 25 seconds or something, so we'll be returning the last couple pages of book two here upon adjournment, otherwise if everyone could please vacate the room. I do appreciate that. Budget Committee now will stand in recess, and we'll return to Representative Fogel and Representative Taylor for your lines of questioning too. Thank you.