Welcome to one of our ex-ficio members, Representative Roberts, Assistant Majority Floor Leader. Good to have you with us here for part of today. We'll now move to the Missouri State Public Defenders Commission. Director, if you'd like to come forward and please make your introductions, and if you have any opening comments, we welcome those as well at this time. Thank you for being with us today. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mary Fox, Director of Missouri State Public Defender. With me today is Heather Tillman, who is our Budget Manager, and also Matthew Crowell, who is going to be the next Director of Missouri State Public Defender, because I am retiring at June 30th of this year, very happily. It's been a wonderful experience to be here. Well, thank you. Thank you. For those of you who aren't familiar, because public defender, it doesn't always totally explain what it is, who we are, and what we do. We are the independent department of the judiciary that provides representation to those persons who are in the criminal justice system who have either a felony, a misdemeanor, a appeal, a post-conviction case, sexually violent predator, parole revocation, some juvenile delinquency cases, and I feel like there's one more that I'm forgetting. I think that's all of them, but we provide representation in those cases. We only represent people who apply to us and request our services and who qualify as indigent. Indigent is basically poor. It's defined within the code of state regulations and the statute, and it sets out exactly how we determine whether or not a person qualifies for public defender services. If we determine a person is qualified and there is a belief by the court or the prosecutor that they are not, they can contest that. If we determine someone is not qualified, again, they can contest that, and the court can make a determination that a person is indigent. We handle about 56,000 new cases a year in our trial divisions, about 80,000 cases during the course of a year because a case doesn't get resolved in the course of one year, and actually that's 90,000. It was 56,000 new and 29,000 that are left over from the year before. We have about 700 employees, and we have 47 offices, 32 different locations throughout the state, trial offices throughout the state, and then we have large offices in Kansas City, St. Louis, and Columbia that house all of our specialty units, the appellate and post-conviction units. So, we are happy to be here today. We have just a few new decision items. We are fortunate, for those of you who follow the news, the public defender system for years has struggled with funding. This General Assembly has done a great job of improving our funding, improving our FTE, and the passage of the legalization of recreational marijuana has provided us with additional funds that we are going to be coming to you and asking you in terms of how we can spend those funds that we are just now beginning to receive. So, happy to be here today. I can start going through the budget. Yes, thank you for those introductory comments. I do have a couple of questions just before we get started here, and Director, you came by my office, I believe it was a week or two before, which I appreciate. For those on the committee that might not know, or those listening, rather customary for all departments, the directors come by and maybe visit about the budget and what have you, and we have spoken through correspondence about a particular issue, and we spoke just briefly about it in my office, about a particular issue, employment issue, with the Missouri State Public Defender's Office and Commission, and some activities of the commission of recent date, of which you are familiar with, obviously. The committee, probably not familiar with, maybe, though some, I believe, signed a letter from Representative Roberts, and just for the edification of the committee, please indulge me, and I will give you a brief summary that will certainly give context to the questions that I have for you today regarding this matter. There was a young girl, 9 years old, by the name of Rowan Ford, who lived with her mother and stepfather, David Spears, in Stella, Missouri, which is wholly contained in the 159th District in Newton County and on the McDonald County line. On the night of November 2nd, 2007, the mother left Rowan and Spears' care while she went to work for an overnight shift. That evening, gentlemen by the name of Nathan Muren and Christopher Collings, friends of Spears, came over to drink and play pool at Spears' home. Later, the men left Rowan sleeping alone at home while they went to Collings' trailer, continuing to drink and now smoking marijuana. Muren and Spears returned before midnight, taking back roads to avoid police due to their intoxication. On November 3rd, so that is the following day, the mother returned home and discovered Rowan was missing. Spears claimed she had gone to a friend's house but could not specify who. Rowan's mother searched the neighborhood without success and reported Rowan missing to the Sheriff's Department. Rowan's last known contacts, Spears, Muren, and Collings, became persons of interest in the case. On November 9th, Rowan's body was discovered in a sinkhole called Fox Cave, not terribly far away in McDonald County. Clinton Clark, a police chief with prior family history and a good rapport with Collings, informed Collings about the discovery, prompting an emotional reaction from him. Collings then asked Clark to talk privately at Muncie Bridge, where he admitted to leaving his home that night and taking the highway to get to Spears' home before the other two men would return, abducting Rowan from her bedroom and taking her to his trailer, where he sexually assaulted her and ultimately strangled her after he realized she had recognized him. Afterward, he disposed of her body and attempted to destroy evidence. Back at the police department, Collings repeated his confession in front of multiple law enforcement officials. The confession shocked investigators as they suspected Spears as the main perpetrator, believing Collings just knowledgeable about the events. After Spears had been informed of Collings' confession, he implicated himself by stating that he had also been at Collings' trailer and had sexually assaulted Rowan. He additionally acknowledged being present when Collings killed her and helping dispose of her body. Collings was subsequently charged with first-degree murder, forcible rape, statutory rape, and was executed by lethal injection on December 3, 2024 at the Eastern Reception Diagnostic and Correctional Center. David Spears was initially charged with a capital offense, but eventually his conviction was endangering the welfare of a child, a felony, and hindering the prosecution of a felony, a felony. Spears was sentenced to 11 years, but eventually was paroled by the Missouri Department of Corrections after serving five years of his sentence. During his parole, Spears was hired by the Missouri State Public Defender's Office as a clerk typist in 2016 to the Clayton Trial Office, but resigned in 2019. He returned to the Missouri State Public Defender's Office in 2020 in the West Plains Office, where I believe he continues to be employed to this day. Much of what I just summarized was taken almost verbatim from an opinion of the Missouri Supreme Court denying an appellate avenue of Mr. Collins and was the facts of the case section of that opinion. The Missouri State Public Defender's Office Commission, rather, revised their hiring policy at the beginning of this year after a letter dated December 19, 2024, penned by Representative Roberts, signed by 16 state representatives, was written to the commission calling for Spears' termination and revision of the hiring policy. So my first question to you, well, let me start with offhand, are you, again, I read it basically verbatim, but are you aware of anything I said that was incorrect up to this point? No, I think that's an accurate reflection of what the Missouri Supreme Court put in their opinion. Thank you. Is Mr. Spears still today currently employed with the Missouri State Public Defender's Office? Yes. Okay. Would it be true to say that the revised hiring policy that you provided my office with, as well as a copy of the hiring policy at the time of Spears' hiring, but if that hiring policy that was in effect today was in effect when he was hired, that he would not be eligible for hire? Is that true? He would not, and he would not because at the time that he was hired, the Missouri State Public Defender was still representing Christopher Collings, and there would have been a conflict of interest. Yeah, I want to ask you about that a little bit in just a moment. So it is, I believe, but I'm going to ask the question, obviously he was hired, and I should say, Director, that you were not the director in your capacity when Mr. Spears was hired. I was not the director when he was hired in 2016. I was the director in 2020 when he was rehired. Okay. I appreciate that clarification. That's helpful. So it is your position and belief that he was not ineligible to be hired under the previous hiring policy? That is correct. Okay. So you also provided me with a copy of that policy, and it does state as a part of it that was in effect at the time that, you know, review of criminal information and conviction is there's a background check. It does state that a criminal conviction or negative information obtained through the background check does not automatically disqualify an individual from employment, and that if a criminal background check reveals one or more convictions, the human resources manager, the general counsel, the division director willreview the results in consultation with the immediate hiring authority and the deputy director and then list a factor criteria that they should consider and so was that done in both instances this was the policy in effect both instances in which mr. Spears was hired so it was my understanding I did investigate it was done in 2016 when he was hired that there was a discussion amongst that group of people and then in 2020 it was reviewed again yes so some of the factors that are listed that should be considered is the severity of the offense or misconduct and I'm not reading all of them the circumstances of each offense the age at the time of the offense the nature of the position but perhaps more importantly and the negative impact on the agency how the convictions relate to the position sought or the mission of the agency and I'm skipping on down you know criminal convictions that can negatively impact client representation the above factors will be reviewed to determine whether the offense is job related whether the nature of the offense presents the individual from performing the job in an acceptable manner or whether the offense impacts the individual's ability to represent the agency effectively so in the opinion of and perhaps yourself but certainly the human resources manager the general counsel the division director the immediate public defender hiring authority and the deputy director it was their belief that these offenses felony child endangerment leading to the death of a nine-year-old girl obstruction of justice hindering of a prosecution wouldn't impact the individual's ability to represent the agency effectively I can't really discuss you know a personnel issue in detail in a public hearing but I will tell you that I have with me the press release that was issued by the prosecutor in the case back in so let me stop you right there maybe can't speak to particulars let me ask you has the could you speak to this if could you speak to if any disciplinary actions ever been taken relating to the human resources manager the general counsel the division director the immediate hiring authority or the deputy director none of those people who were involved in that discussion are currently with us other than the human resources manager and the answer is no okay well then I'm just going to infer that it was their belief that it was appropriate because had it not been then disciplinary action would be appropriate because they would have violated the policy which that doesn't reflect on mr. Spears but it does reflect on those that would hire him so I read in the letter that was returned by the Public Defenders Commission to Representative Roberts and to myself and all those that signed it that it states based upon advice and further review of chapter 600 which is the public defender statute we believe the authority to terminate the employment of a clerical employee is not an express power granted to the Public Defender Commission that's interesting and I went and read chapter 600 and I'm not sure that I maybe necessarily disagree with that but let me ask you this is there anyone at the public defenders office that can terminate an employee certainly I can terminate an employee and I would terminate an employee if their performance was not successful or if they had done something in violation of a of a policy of the public defender but we do not in we when we terminate someone we confer generally with the Attorney General's office and we have been instructed that we are not to terminate without good cause the performance have you conferred with the Attorney General's office specifically on this matter no I've talked to him on other cases so chapter 600 0 2 1 says a public defender shall employ persons to be assistant public defenders deputy public defenders investigators and any other employees as are necessary to discharge the function of the office all of whom shall serve at the pleasure of the employing public defender correct so it's not your belief or opinion that someone who brings reputational harm on the agency or that could you don't believe someone who has pled guilty to felony obstruction hindering of a prosecution could be problematic for the agency so so as all Missouri agencies are we are a second-chance employer and pursuant to the regulations that were put down by there was three governors ago we have banned the box we do not ask when somebody applies whether or not they have a criminal conviction and the fact that they have a criminal conviction does not keep us from employing them well you didn't have to ask because you knew because and I didn't know that I brought this up but mr. Spears was a client of the client of the capital division correct mm-hmm mr. Collins was a client of the capital a different capital division correct let's ask about the conflict of interest which you said the current policy would preclude mr. Spears from having been hired but now we have this cognitive dissonance of the policy that you currently have would preclude someone from being employed that's currently employed but there is no more conflict of interest because the state executed mr. calling so he is no longer a client yes or no the public defender's office represented mr. Collins in an appellate manner while mr. Spears was employed by the public defender's office we did and and the language how is that not a conflict of oh I agree with you that it is and if that had been if I had been the director at that time and aware of that that would have been a problem I did not become aware of that conflict of interest until I believe representative Roberts letter arrived or actually was before representative Roberts letter it was at the time of Christopher Collings execution because mr. Collings put allegations in his clemency petition which then resulted in the media in southwestern Missouri repeating that information the information that mr. Collings put in his clemency petitions that was then put into the media which I believe is what probably brought this to to representative Roberts attention was found by the Missouri courts the Missouri Supreme Court and the governor all rejected those allegations and went forward with the execution but yes I agree with you that if we had known they we were representing both we should not have hired mr. Spears while we were representing mr. Collins I will say that that's not a I don't know that that is a conflict of interest absolutely but I feel as though it is difficult to be speaking in favor of mr. Collings not being executed when his allegations in his clemency petition which was denied by all courts and the governor worth putting blame on mr. Spears and I will say that the I think we all agree it was a horrible case no question about it and it caused trauma I think you told me in your community I've spoken to other representatives from that area and it could cause trauma to them and that trauma continues long after a crime but mr. Spears the person who was is employed by the public defender system was not convicted of the murder was not convicted of the sexual assaults and in fact according to the prosecutor at the time his convictions were for leaving his stepdaughter alone to go drinking with friends and asking a friend to lie to law enforcement about why he left the child alone I'm not saying those things are okay I'm never saying those things are okay he received the maximum sentence on those two charges he completed those maximum sentences and he is off parole and so we as a agency and I think Missouri as a state believes that people with criminal convictions should be able to be employed even by the state I think your positions are the only ones where you cannot have a felony conviction to be an elected representative at a minimum his actions led directly to the rape and murder of this girl at a minimum I don't think anyone questions that so in you know just because there's not a law and I don't think we need a law for everything we shouldn't doesn't mean something necessarily wise or prudent and so is it your position that everyone deserves second chance in relation to employment the Missouri State Public Defender's Office you would hire convicted murderer I would can I would consider their infirm employment yes okay that's very interesting it's not the position of the public do you currently employ any convicted murderers I would have to look at our I don't have everyone's private background checks in front of me do you currently employ anyone who's admitted to murder are you speaking about mr. Spears I mean he did admit he absolutely he did but then that issue went before the court where there was a determination that his confession was false it didn't fit the physical evidence it didn't fit the facts of the case and it was inadmissible in court so you employ liars clearly well you know you there's a line and I we I'm sure every agency in the state employs liars I mean let's be honest but but you know do you lie to court a coerced confession is that a lie or is that a bad act on the part of the person who made a confession because it was coerced or a bad act on the part of the police officer I mean it's I think it's probably a bad act on each person's part so it'sDo we lie in court? That the court would hopefully say no. So the the and again I think the reputation of the whole agency is what is at stake here that's what I mean that concerns me as well. I think I I would disagree representative and I appreciate your position but I think Missouri State Public Defender does an amazing job in terms of handling the representation that is our responsibility and the state's responsibility as a constitutional obligation and I think an employment of a person with a felony conviction is not a negative factor in our reputation. Our reputation is a result of the work that we do in the courts in the hundred and fifteen counties in this state and I think if you ask the judges those hundred and fifteen counties if you ask the prosecutors in those hundred and fifteen counties you will hear or in our clients the most important people you will hear that we have a good reputation. You don't believe Mr. Spears murdered Rowan Ford? I don't know the facts of the case the prosecutor did not believe that he murdered her and the prosecutor was not convicted of that. The prosecutor and the there were two prosecutors the local prosecutor who is now a judge in Douglas County I'm sorry in Berry County and an assistant attorney general who was assigned to the case who is now a judge in Douglas County. Was charged with murder but never convicted. There are a lot of people who are charged with murder who are not convicted. Not convicted of that crime that's absolutely true. It is true though that certainly the and Collings was represented by the Missouri Public Defender's Office in appellate fashion that it was at least certainly insinuated that perhaps Mr. Spears was to be looked at or that I should cast some doubt on Mr. Collings conviction. I'm sorry to say that again. So your office at least insinuated in filings to the court in the appellate actions of Mr. Collings that you know perhaps some doubt on his conviction or perhaps we shouldn't have that he should not have ultimately received the death sentence which he did in this case because of blame that certainly maybe should be maybe we should be looking at Mr. Spears. That was in the pleadings in the court absolutely. While Mr. Spears is employed. I mean it's just remarkable to me that we're like you know we this this man shouldn't die you know our client and because we know the guy who did it because he's he works for us it's just insane to me and I will say and I do I believe people deserve second chances and if you've served your time and it's been convicted and not convicted one crime and it's you were sentenced and our laws and adjudicates this people deserve to live their lives and go on not everybody deserves to work for state government and that would be my firm belief and position nobody's owed a taxpayer job and a salary and this is just the worst one of the worst lapses in judgment I have ever seen. I don't think anybody is owed a state job but I will say that if a person is successfully performing then there is not a reason to terminate. Well Miss Ford certainly deserved to live and she didn't get that opportunity. Representative Roberts, you're recognized. Thank You Mr. Chair. Before I get started I want to clarify with you why I'm taking up this committee's time for this particular issue and first I want to say that in speaking with the chair of the Commission at least one member with you and your replacement I have been treated with absolute courtesy by each and every one of you and I appreciate that a lot and I would just make it sure that the committee understands I have the greatest personal respect for you and the difficult work that you do. I am less concerned about the image of the agency and I'll talk about what I'm really concerned with to begin with but I want to clarify why this is such a big deal to me. This happened 17 years ago. Rowan Ford was nine years old. Are you aware that you have recently changed your hiring policies with regard to this particular matter? Yes sir, in direct response to your letter. And do you remember what that change was? There were two changes. One was the one that I spoke to Representative Deaton about that there needs to be an evaluation of whether or not there is a conflict of interest. That was not previously in the policy. The other the other one is actually sort of taking it back to where it was at the time. Initially the policy said you contact these different different people have to be contacted before a hiring decision is made if there's a bad report off of a background check. We changed who that in now involves and it involves both the director which I don't think the last one involved director I think it ended with deputy director and then also the commission chair. Okay so I have a policy a copy of those policies. I wrote a letter that was one page and three sentences long. I got back five pages in my letter and I will keep this concise and read directly from the letter. I stated that the rationale by which the Public Defender's Office determined that hirings David Spears is a good idea absolutely defies reason. It is unconscionable and it offends the memory of Rowan Ford further robbering her of justice and then we said we call on the Public Defender's Commission to use all legal means at its disposal to terminate the employment of David Spears. Further we expect the Commission to develop hiring protocols that will ensure that such monumentally foolish hiring decisions are prevented in the future. Two things is what we asked for. So I'll address them one at a time. In the termination discussion there is nothing in the letter that was returned to me that would indicate that there was any effort whatsoever to find the means to terminate David Spears. Instead what I got was an explanation of why you can't do what clearly needs to be done. Are you aware of any effort whatsoever to look into the authority and ability to terminate David Spears? Well I think your letter was addressed to the Commission and asked the Commission to terminate him and so they did review chapter 600 as Representative Deaton said which contains the Commission's powers and duties and they consulted both our Internal General Counsel as well as Employment Counsel outside of the agency. So let me let me restate what I asked. We call on the Public Defender's Commission to use all legal means at its disposal. Wouldn't it reasonably suggest that they would contact the current employer and ask him to terminate? You mean me? Anybody who has the authority to terminate. These people serve at the pleasure of somebody. Was that person asked to terminate? Was it even a request? It was a discussion. Okay so we asked or we called upon you to take this action and what I got was an explanation of why you can't do what needs to be done. We asked you to review your policies and develop protocols that would prevent this from happening again. The change in your protocol says this and this is a letter directly from the Commission Chair. The changes also require the Director to notify and consult with the Chair of the Public Defender's Commission and that's it. So of all of the things that we asked, this is what I got. I got this token change that doesn't even include the Commission members. Why, when you're making a decision of this nature, are the members of the Commission cut out? Why do they have no voice and one person gets to make a decision like this? And before you answer because it's rhetorical, let me just say this. I'm angry about this for a couple of reasons. When you and I spoke, you explained to me that David Spears was doing a good job and I've heard people say well yeah but he's paid his debt to society and yeah we want to rehabilitate him. Director, I just plain don't care. I don't care about the reputation of the public defenders. I don't care that he's doing a good job. He has not and will never pay his debt to Roland Ford. He hindered prosecution. You are aware that he's the person who directed law enforcement to find the body. I would disagree with that. Really? Yes sir. And so how did they find the body? It wasn't, it wasn't Mr. Collings I assure you. No it wasn't. So how did they find the body? The police investigation. And they went there, why? They did, there's a lot of details in a case and I think you and I have discussed this and I think we will disagree but if you look at the evidence that was presented at the one case that went to trial, the evidence was that they went through the entire area. Some of the places they went, they went with Mr. Spears but they did not find the body when they were with him. They did go back to many of those areas and one of those areas that they went back to, they did eventually find the body. But I would disagree with you and I think theProsecutor in the case would disagree with you that mr. Spears took him to the body And I know that you were involved in the law enforcement in the area at the time and we're talking with the folks from McDonald and Barrie County But I think there was disagreement even amongst the police officers From Barrie County and the police officers from McDonald County one group felt mr. Spears was responsible the other group felt that he was not So director with all due respect and I and I do mean respect yes, sir It isn't just that we disagree this letter and the condensation that's referred to several times in this letter that There was no evidence presented Well, no kidding Because the evidence that would have been before the court was part of this so-called False confession part of which may well have been false But some of it was not People who aren't familiar with this might accept this, but I was there It was David Spears who directed law enforcement to the place where they found that body It was David Spears who sat quietly for six days While the mother's searching for her child and didn't tell her more importantly. He's on the local media Playing the part of a bereaved father begging people to return his child while her mother is standing right there The man's conduct was despicable by any standard and In return for which he now has a job He would not be working for the public defender had he not had a previous relationship He would not have a previous relationship had he not done what he did you can't decouple that sequence of events He's got a job today because of what he did. He's got a paycheck he's got benefits, and he's got a future which Rowan Ford does not because she's dead and The idea that he's being paid for at public expense tax dollars paid for by Rowan Ford's mother Rowan Ford's extended family Rowan Ford's classmates Rowan's Ford's teachers and the police officers who had to investigate that horrible crime are all paying David Spears salary Does that not offend your conscience? The taxpayers do pay the public defender general revenue funds and those funds do go to fulfill the state's constitutional obligation He is one of the people amongst 700 who is doing that work My objection is not to the quality of his work or what he deserves. My objection is he's employed at all at taxpayer expense It's wrong and There isn't any way to defend what is indefensible His conduct was despicable. There is no other word for it, and he's benefiting from it Now I told the the chair of the commission when I spoke to him, and I meant it I do not want to be malicious about this But what I got back in return for expressing our concern is nothing more than a band-aid to use a 60s phrase you shined me on and It irritates me more than just a little bit that this body and the people who signed that letter are Treated as though we're a nuisance because this is a token change. It is not meaningful in any way You've told me why you can't do what you have to do and you've told me about this little thing We're going to change now. We're going to ask the chair. That's the change So at the risk of sounding malicious I just want you to know I am angry enough that I am going to ask the chair to consider an amendment during markup I know you have an NDI for some additional people if this is going to be your hiring practices Then I would suggest that we deny that until such time as your policies Allow the commission to weigh in on these decisions and they have the majority vote the idea that we're simply going to consult somebody and The end result is we've got somebody who's done what this man did And where is the justice for Roran Ford in this? I'm baffled. I Know you I've talked to the the chair of the commission. You are smart people How can how can anybody say that Employing this man and providing him with a good future in Some fashion furthers the interest of justice for Rowan Ford a nine-year-old child who died violently While her stepdad stood back and kept his mouth shut How does that further the interest of justice for that child? That's a question oh I don't I do not believe that victims of crime ever receive real justice from the criminal system I mean that that's just not it's not what the way it is set up Rowan Ford suffered horribly her family suffered horribly. You can't fix that. I can't fix that. I Guess the question that we all have to ask ourselves is what do we do moving forward to keep our community safe? and in my mind When a person has completed their sentence employing them Making certain that they are becoming taxpayers That they are gainfully employed is a positive not a negative We will never make Rowan Ford's family feel good. No matter what we do killing Christopher Collins Didn't bring her justice Killing David Spears would not have brought her justice Incarcerating him in a prison for 11 years Didn't bring her back So I I hear what you're saying representative but You know The criminal legal system is set up to define what is illegal and to mandate what is the acceptable Punishment if you do those things It is not to make the victims whole This is called the criminal justice system and for the people left behind Sometimes the only justice they will ever receive is the sure and certain knowledge that somebody will pay the price for their conduct David Spears has not quite the contrary. He's benefited from it So I'm gonna I'm gonna close with this You are correct. We disagree. We disagree fundamentally. I Think that you can rehabilitate people's conduct. You don't rehabilitate character Whether it's additional character element or a missing element I don't know but people are who they are This is not about his conduct This is about a character flaw that would allow him to do what he did And you don't rehabilitate that I Appreciate your courtesy Truly and I do and I appreciate yours representative and if I sounded angry, I simply can't help it I have yet to talk with anybody who has not had a gut reaction to this even if they can't tell you why It offends them on a visceral level It's fundamentally innately wrong and until the Commission Demonstrates a willingness to actually respond to what we called upon them to do They've made no effort to find a way to terminate this employment that so is offensive on its face And this token change in policy doesn't address anything and until that happens I am probably going to remain a pretty vocal critic at least of this circumstance Not you not the Commission, but this is wrong And it needs to get fixed and you're the only people who can do it Thank You. Mr. Chair Thank you representatives. There's certainly certain types of anger that is wrong and sinful but This is not that and I share your righteous indignation before I go to representative Prouty I just follow up and I will say the one part of that which it was again in response to represent Roberts letter that I also signed others signed as well So I was given a copy of the reply that he mentioned I've got it in front of me and it is the one part that I found frankly offensive because it seemed and you know Representative Roberts, although been involved in law enforcement and the law is not an attorney. I'm not But it certainly upon review is like, you know a philosophical how many lawyers can dance on the head of a pen? Okay, if the Commission cannot terminate but as I read to you, these are at-will employees that serve as the book So you don't want to fire them fine. Just say it which this was, you know Clearly trying to obfuscate I think which I found not particularly helpful And I'll leave it at that representative Prouty. You may proceed with an inquiry. Thank you. Mr. Chair before I Start, let me first say Thank you Thank you There's a Scripture that says it was like fire in my bones and I struggled to keep my tongue and it's one of those times I Learned about this situation maybe about a year and a half ago because it was on investigation discovery and you're right representative Roberts it's disgusting, but what's Got me seething now are the the responses and I'm Shaking like I'm physically ill. So I'm gonna leave after I say this. Let me just say I'm a no on this entire book. I Can't I can't I don't want to hear any I can't the voice of it the the Cavalier sir I'm a no on this whole thing as long as that man is employed because we're good conscious spirit I can't go back to district 73 and tell these people that is okay for us to use their money to pay someone who's complicit and willful Even if it wasn't for the moneymurder this man stood there with that woman while she was looking for her child knowing that she was sorry I'm sorry congratulations it's a no for me I'm not even going to sit and listen to the presentation I've heard enough from the department how endangering a welfare and I hope the Commission and whomever is listening to this for you to say that it doesn't damage the reputation of the agency it does because I'm going to walk out of here and when it comes up if that man is still employed if I'm elected to something else in his body it will be a no on this budget for the entirety of time that the good Lord sees for me to serve in the legislature and I mean it so if you don't think it damaged your reputation it absolutely did I can't believe that that was the response that you I would have rather you sat there and said nothing at the pleasure of the word pleasure is even weird I would have been so embarrassed personally to have this brought to I'm shaking brought to me I if that man decides to stay employed rather than resign it tells me all I need to know about his character he ought to be ashamed of himself but as a person who is seen as an agent of the state of Missouri I'm embarrassed and I I I I I'm sorry that you had to deal with this and I'm sorry this is our response not that we have to be reactionary to trauma representative but we are doing the wrong thing here if it says and I don't have the the documents mr. chairman where it said something about their ability to represent the department a state representative out of 30 of us 27 30 of us who is in part responsible for giving you the money to do what you do at the expense of the constitutional rights of other people is telling you that I am NOT going to sit and listen to you because I'm disgusted it is absurd to say that he reflects well on this department and doesn't injure the reputation of it so if you all are willing to keep that man I I hope that the Commission watch this that they're not watching if you're willing to keep this man at the expense of other people's constitutional rights I hope the governor or whoever appoints you turns you over we just talked about justice and stuff in the state of the state we talk about protecting children every year we're wrong for this and I'm not going to be culpable of it I have $40,000 ain't enough to go to hell over mr. chairman I'm gonna stop because I don't want to use profanities thank you for your time it's a no for me representative Burnett you have a comment or inquiry you may proceed Thank You mr. chairman as someone that's new and there's a number of freshmen in here you know this is the first time we are hearing this horrific story mr. chairman wonderful articulation and I believe even too reserved and representative Roberts your passion came through sir this is the most asinine I'm sorry this is the most ridiculous presentation we've heard it's embarrassing actually so before I say something that I should not as a member of 163 people subcommittee that controls this budget member of budget I'm a no I'm not interested even hearing it until this is addressed thank you you okay see no further inquiries at this time please proceed with your budget presentation will proceed but I would also maybe think is it time to take a break and have us come back at another time after I go back to the Commission I don't know that their position will change but I think that our clients and our employees deserve all of the members of this committee to be willing to sit here and listen to this and we have very important requests to make that will have an influence on all of our clients and I and I want you to be able to listen and have a chance to talk to representative Roberts offline have a chance to talk to representative Deaton offline have a chance to talk to me I don't want you to just say no I won't consider your budget that's not fair and and I know you're angry and I appreciate why you're angry and I just want you to think about the fact we experience this anger 80,000 times a year in our jobs and we have people who do this really hard work and they deserve your attention they deserve for you to hear who we are all of us not just one person who we are and what we do and why it's so important so I'm gonna make that request chair I don't know if that's possible representative Roberts you have additional comment or inquiry please proceed yes I'd like to support the director's suggestion first of all we and I realize I probably contributed to it this gotten more emotional than reasonable but then that's kind of the nature of my objection nonetheless I do think that we have made it very clear that we are not satisfied with the Commission's response and that it might be advantageous for you to go back to them and tell them the reality of what they've done by giving this token response and it is a token response I'm speaking for myself and myself only but I suspect others believe the same thing I want to know how you're going to terminate him not why you can't and I want to know that the Commission is going to have a voice in this not just the chair those two things are important and I think it's it's a good opportunity for you to maybe go back and help introduce a level of reality to what this decision has has become and why it needs to be addressed because it otherwise not going to go away so I support her suggestion mr. chair if it's possible to give them some time to go back and talk with the Commission and return at a later date I think that would be advantageous for everybody thank you mr. chair thank you representative representative Steinmeier you'd like to comment just an inquiry to the chair yes you may proceed is there is there a way that we could and I don't know if this is a doable request if if there was a way where we could adjourn to an executive session where we could ask more questions without other parties present as a committee if we could do that and and have a little more detail but I'm not prepared to move forward listening at this point because I feel like I wouldn't be able to give any type of logical or objective thinking at this point but I do have many questions and I don't know if it's possible for us to have a closed executive session where we can have mr. Roberts represent Roberts answer any questions we may have and to you as well as our chair no I mean that would not be I don't believe an allowable exception of the law to have a closed session for that purpose I mean I would invite you to speak with representative Roberts or myself offline if you feel that's necessary at I mean I'm the chair I'm at will one person at the end representative black you have something I was just gonna let me see if you still want to ask I was just gonna ask to the committee does anybody object to to reconvening this this presentation later time would anybody object to that per se okay so here is so I will honor that request thank you we'll come back and I mean we have hearings scheduled already all next week so it's probably two weeks at this point would be the earliest opportunity will certainly work with your office to to get this rescheduled and let the committee know what date that is I will just tell you though I mean if if and I understand you know you'd like as many people for obvious reasons here to hear that presentation there's really under no obligation to attend now or in the future and if if we're at the same place say it's in two weeks I mean it's I think we're gonna probably be right back where we are so for whatever that's worth I would also request and ask that you do inquire with the Attorney General's office sure about this situation specifically the context and I will request of them as well that they offer you an opinion to the extent that's helpful or any assistance as it relates to this it sounds like perhaps that's helpful representative black you have something on this please proceed just a comment mr. chair and I believe you you explained to us as you were describing a situation that the response from the Commission indicated that they had no express authority somehow to get involved in this situation something like that mr. chair and I would only point out hopefully for the benefit of every one involved that section 600 0.017 says that the Commission shall have the following powers with all powers incident thereto or necessary for the performance thereof one of the enumerated powers to which they have all powers incident thereto is to receive complaints and review office performance among other elements so I'm as a lawyer I'm not perhaps they don't have the express authority but I would suggest there's plenty of authority mr. chair I appreciatecomment I'll defer to your legal expertise on that representative and with that you can take your leave at this time and we'll be in contact. Okay I appreciate it and I appreciate everyone listening to Representative Roberts Representative Deaton and my responses. Thank you so much. Thank you. I did leave a I'm not sure we really got to a hearing but I did leave a witness. Yes appreciate that that is important for the record thank you that is necessary and that will well that won't exactly conclude but we will continue the at a later date the FY 2026 budget request for the Missouri Public Defender Commission. With that we'll move to the Missouri General Assembly and it appears we're beginning with the I say beginning with the house that's not necessarily true although we do have our House Budget Officer Angela Smith coming forward so appreciate you being here with us today and when you're ready please introduce yourself and begin take us through the book. Okay Mr. Chairman members of the committee my name is Angela Smith I'm with House Appropriations I'm also the House Budget Officer. Today I will be walking you through the budget book for the General Assembly. In this book we have the House budget we have the Senate budget and the budgets of the joint committees. I will walk you through the book but if you have specific question related to those budgets I will be deferring to them. I can however answer the House budget questions. I do want to take a minute to highlight a recent change you guys are probably already aware of which is the chief clerk you probably recognize him he was the former budget chairman's chief of staff Joe Engler and he's back there. Otherwise all positions and committees remain the same as last year with the Senate we have Patrick Baker an administrator and then Adam Codingsfield he's the director of appropriations of course the House Joe Engler chief clerk. The Joint Committee on Legislative Research we have oversight director Julie Morf and the revisor Matt Morris. Joint Committee on Admin Rules is Sarah Shappie. Joint Committee on Education Dr. Gwatley and the Joint Committee on Public Retirement Robert Coleman. Just a brief just for the committee's edification thank you for that Angela and of course you saw Mr. Coensfeld's here and I'm sure if there's any if there were to be any questions about the Senate he'd be equipped to handle those but Mr. Baker had a conflict he didn't for me that I told him his presence wasn't required but just in case anyone was wondering where he was today so thank you please proceed. Okay so we'll get a start on the budget book here on page four we have the financial summary of the General Assembly then moving on to page five we have the only NDI in this book which is the governor's recommended pay plan. Otherwise there are no dollar changes affecting the cores but I will go ahead and walk you through those cores in case you have any questions. So on page 16 we have the core for the senator salaries and this is PS. On page 22 we have the core for the senators mileage. On page 27 we have the core for the senators per diem. On page 32 we have the Senate contingent expenses core. This pays for the operating costs of the Senate and funding for staff expenses of the legislative library and membership dues. Moving on to page 39 we have the joint contingent expenses this is for joint costs of the House and the Senate. On page 45 this moves to the House's budget this is the budget for representative salaries. On page 50 we have the core for representatives mileage. On page 55 we have the core for the representatives per diem. On page 60 we have the core for the representatives expense vouchers the 700 accounts. There are a few core reallocations to this one they all net zero it was just moving a those are on page 63 if you wanted to take a look. Reallocations for the different new movers PS buckets and then we had reallocations affecting E&E just to align with planned actuals. Otherwise moving on to page 66 we have the core for the House contingent and this pays for the salaries of the House staff and representatives staff. Moving on to page 72 we have the core for the House revolving fund. Page 77 is the core for the House organizational dues. Page 82 we have the core for the House policy research this was one-time funding. Page 87 this is the joint committee on legislative research reviser division. On page 93 this is the core for joint committee on legislative research oversight division. You're probably most familiar with the fiscal notes they do the fiscal notes for us. On page 100 we have the core for the joint committee on legislative research. Page 106 this is the core for the joint committee on administrative rules. Page 112 we have the core for the joint committee on public retirement. Page 118 the core for the joint committee on education and then on page 124 it was a transfer to the state capital commission fund this was a one-time funding last year in FY 25 or this current year. And then likewise on page 129 we have maintenance and repair for the capital complex this was one time funding as well. And then finally on page 134 this is job class detail this provides the job classes of all the divisions within the General Assembly. Representative Tim Taylor do you recognize for an inquiry? Thank You Mr. Chair I'm sorry to take you back if you will though go back to page 100 just wanted to inquire about actually we're on page 101 why the unexpended funds they're such a large amount. Ask if our revisor would come forward at this time see that Matt's with us here and just noticing that it's been pretty consistent over the last three years. Good I guess it's afternoon now everyone I'm Matt Morris I'm the director of the Joint Committee on Legislative Research and the revisor of statutes the the fund that you are referring to is the is the fund in which the the statutory revision fund which is in place to to basically fund the republication of the statutes it's it has been there for a long long time it the the function is basically to when we receive money for the sale of the statute books it goes into the fund and when we republish the statutes or there's just a few things that are delineated in law that it can be used for when we republish the statutes those expenses come out of that fund it's a cash fund are we I mean I assume we are but we are actually physically publishing statutes or they all just online is there a mixed bag now it is a mixed bag it like everything else in the world has gone more towards the online use we we publish and sell far fewer hard copies than we used to but we do still we do still publish the entire sets and supplements every year for the updates okay thank you and you don't do a republication every year that's kind of as time goes on and at the you know probably advice and consent of the Joint Committee on Legislative Research which some of you are on along with our Senate colleagues that's correct that that is correct and part of the reason that the large amount stays in place is that whenever we do a general republication of statutes the bill for that is quite large and rather than have to spring that on the General Assembly a long time ago I think the decision was made just to keep the money in there so thank you so I mean when is that decision made that is completely up to the Joint Committee on Legislative Research the constitution calls for the statutes to be promulgated every ten years or as provided by law and at one point if the the statute said every ten years with the prevalence of the website we you know I think the the belief is now that we promulgate the law you know constantly and so you know every time there's a change it goes up on the website so at the point that we republish the entire set of books is completely within the purview of the of the Joint Committee to make that call I believe and listen it's I mean in the grand scheme of things it's not a large amount of money but thank you look in and always looking at you know why money is sitting where it does it's just cut it's caught my eye so very understandable but that's what it's for okay I appreciate it thank you thank you a little insight maybe representative and speaking with the chairmanof the Joint Committee on Legislative Research. It's my belief and understanding that the thought was something like, there probably does need to be a republication. I think, you know, I forget when the last one was done. It's been a 16, 16 years and there's supplements but it's probably time needless to say. Although we haven't had a revision bill in a number of years which, you know, cleans up the obsolete sunsetted language and you kind of hate to throw that in there if you don't have to because it's actually not even effective and, you know, you're now you're printing more pages if you're doing a republication. And so I think the hope was that we could get a revision bill across the finish line, maybe before republication. I think there was some thought, at least by some, that that would maybe be a good way to approach it. And again, that chairman, perhaps the next chairman, will be a better legislator, more successful. There was a revision bill last year and and we didn't get it done. So maybe, and we've yet to denominate as required under statute a revision bill for this session, but maybe we'll get that done sooner rather than later and and it seems to me anyway that probably a good time to republish. Thank you. Mr. Morris. Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. Are there any other questions, inquiries for the General Assembly today? See none. That will conclude the budget presentation for fiscal year 2026 from Missouri General Assembly. Thank you, Angela, for your presentation. Representative Prouty, you have a comment or inquiry? You may proceed. Just a comment. You are a great legislator. We may not always agree, but I've always appreciated your professionalism. You say things, not to grandstand, but because you mean them sincerely and I've had the pleasure of you being my classmate and serving with you. You are a consummate statement, statesman, and I appreciate you for that, but more importantly, Mr. Chair, Madam Ranking Member, and members, I don't apologize, but I do thank you all very much for extending me the grace to have a display of humanity in this in this committee. Thank you so very much, Mr. Chair, for also indulging me and making the environment, at least for today, one in which I can come back and do my job. I thank you deeply and sincerely, and I also thank you for your comments on behalf of little Rowan and her family from the bottom of my heart, so thank you all for that. Thank you, lady, and with that, no further business coming for the committee today. We are adjourned.