House Budget Committee will come to order. Madam Clerk, please call the roll. Chair Deaton? Here. Vice Chair Davidson? Here. Representatives Fogle? Here. Black? Here. Boggs? Brown? Here. Chappell? Here. Christensen? Here. Crossley? Here. Cupps? Here. Douglas? Here. Hausman? Here. Hine? Here. Calberlow? Here. Kimball? Here. Lewis? Here. Martin? Here. Mayhew? Here. Murray? Here. President? Here. Owen? Here. Prouty? Here. Riggs? Here. Sharp? Here. Steinhoff? Here. Steinmeier? Here. Taylor Dell? Here. Taylor Tim? Here. Vernetti? Here. Voss? Here. Warwick? Here. Young? Here. Voss? Warwick? Young? Here. Okay. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for being here. Thanks for braving the cold, braving the snow, and of course, we have the Department of Mental Health's budget request today for fiscal year 2026. Director, thanks for being with us, and we certainly welcome any opening comments if you have them, and we'll see how soon we have any inquiries, and soon enough, we'll start in your budget book, so. Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, committee, and thanks for making it in on the, you know, maybe the coldest day of the new year, I think, so appreciate seeing everybody this morning. I am going to just start out with just our critical issues at the department, so most of you may be new. I will say this. Most of you may be new. The Department of Mental Health is about a $4 billion department. We operate both as a payer and a provider of services, so we pay for services in the community, but we also provide services. We provide services in our state-operated hospitals, our state-operated habilitation centers. We also run some community programming that are funded by state staff, and we do case management, so in those roles, we operate in both the provider and the payer capacity. We've got a lot of critical issues at the department right now, and I think a lot of you are pretty familiar with wait lists, so we do have some fairly significant wait lists, and I just wanted to kind of give you an update on those before we got started. So our biggest concerned wait list right now are individuals that have been declared incompetent to stand trial and need competency restoration. These are court-ordered individuals to the Department of Mental Health state-operated hospitals. As of last Thursday, we have 439 individuals that are incompetent to stand trial waiting in county jails for DMH admission. We have 73 more awaiting court orders, which means the Department of Mental Health has done an evaluation. We've identified that this individual is incompetent to stand trial, and so when the court makes the final determination, they will go into that list of 439. We also have 252 more pretrial evaluations, and typically about 50 percent of those will end up committed to the Department of Mental Health. Our wait time is currently 14 months to get into a bed that is operated by the Department of Mental Health, and just to give you some context, historically, if you look at the last 10 years, probably the first six years, we were seeing about a 5 percent increase in referrals. Then, in the last two years, 2022 and 2023, we saw a 40 percent increase in referrals, so we have seen a significant increase in the number of people referred for competency restoration. It looks like we already have a few inquiries lined up here, and we'll go to those. Director Huon, for the record, could you introduce yourself? Valerie Huon, Director, Department of Mental Health. No introduction, but thank you for the record. Before we go to Representative Mayhew and then Representative Martin, I think it would be helpful, and maybe it was one of their questions as well, but I think it would be a helpful context for the committee as to this wait list, and not all wait lists are created equal, fair to say, but this wait list is related to competency restoration. Not that this is even simple, but it certainly is not as simple as it's nearly 500 or whatever the number is. If we just had X dollars, it wouldn't be there next month or a year from now. First of all, can you confirm if that's true or not, and then secondarily, to the extent it is, that defies a lot of what we work with around here, because generally, money can solve the problem, seemingly, in some period of time, short period of time, be it immediately or over maybe a fiscal year or something of that nature. That's not what this is, and so maybe describe for us why that is, and even though that is the case, it's not to say we're totally helpless, and some of the things we have been working on trying to do to help alleviate that. I appreciate, I think, 40 percent, and that's pretty shocking at some point, even if you're doing more. The intake is obviously a big part of this as well, but anyway, that's a lot, obviously, but can you kind of add some color to that? I will. Thank you, and you're absolutely correct. We did get additional capacity in the budget, and you guys have heard about a new hospital that we are planning to build in Kansas City, Missouri. That will add 100 beds for the Department of Mental Health, but that is not something you do quickly, and so we don't even ... I mean, we have land identified. We're working right now on getting an RFQ for a designer, but we're looking at four to five years before we're even able to access that capacity, and honestly, and I've said this before and I'll say it again, you can't build me out of this problem because this is what we really should be doing is there's multiple ways to focus on the issue, and you really need to look at all the different types of individuals that are in this 437, soon to be 500, soon to be more than that. One of the things that we know is a lot of these individuals can likely be supported on an outpatient competency restoration, and so we did have a statutory change passed a few years ago. That program has been slow to get off the ground. We do have a new decision item in the budget that we hope will help expedite that program to give judges a better avenue to make sure that these individuals are actually getting that outpatient-based restoration in the community. We also had a new decision item a couple of years ago that has also been slow to get off the ground, but it is moving now, jail-based restoration, where sometimes if we can actually get in and start treating individuals in a jail-based setting, we can restore them to competency in that setting. A lot, and I don't want to say a lot, individuals sometimes can be supported just with some medication management, and if we can get in there and do that medication management, get them back on track with medications, we can get them restored to competency and through this process quicker. There's also some individuals that we know will need to come into our state psychiatric hospitals, but we have mobile crisis teams, forensic mobile crisis teams that actually go into the jails and help try to keep those folks stable so that they don't decompensate further so that when they do come into our state operative facilities, we're not as far away from a successful situation as we are, could be. We have a new decision item in the budget to expand that program by three more FTE to add one more team. Some of our challenges though that still exist, we can't force somebody in a county jail to take a medication, so that can sometimes make it difficult. We still have limited resources both in the Department of Mental Health and in the community, so a lot of times someone may be concerned about the ability to be successful with an outpatient restoration because somebody doesn't have a stable living environment. Our community providers will work with them to try to achieve that stability, but it is really hard for somebody who's looking at an individual who is sick and who has committed a crime and say, yeah, we should probably just turn you out and let you try to figure this out on your own. We want to try to build in so it doesn't feel like that as much. Did I miss anything? Yeah, that's helpful. I know you could go on for longer than we have today. So we'll go ahead and now go to Representative Mayhew, and then Representative Martin and Representative Owen. Representative Mayhew, you are recognized to inquire. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So we're looking at about 500 who are sitting around waiting to be evaluated. You're aware and you pointed out that some of these have been sitting in that county jail for quite a little while. The way that flows downstream from there is our jail per diem goes through the roof. So I would much rather take some of that money we're spending on jail per diem and apply it to getting some of these people moved through the system. Well, now, this has kind of been around for a while, at least since I've been up here. We always get promised that we've got the strategy that's going to take care of this and we're going to build the hospital here and we're going to do this and we're going to do that. But I'm wondering if we properly explored some of the alternatives here. So one of the things I'd like for you to comment on, and maybe perhaps, and I'm having a hard time trying to figure out which NDI goes with this problem. So make sure you point that out to me when we get to it. And I understand the challenges of hiring folks to do this kind of work, but aren't there contractors that we can hire to get us through a preliminaryevaluation so that we can move those through the system who were only faking it so to speak I hate using that term but you know what I mean that they're using it as a legal strategy rather than they truly have a debilitating mental illness so is that and a possibility have we explored that so we do talk about and for right now and I'm gonna if I say this wrong she can come up and correct me but right now the state doesn't have to be the person that does the evaluation for competency restoration and that list of numbers that I gave you 252 of those folks are in the evaluation phase it's not the 437 the 437 have been evaluated and they've been a they have been committed to the Department of Mental Health so it's the 252 that are still waiting on evaluations so any we can accept evaluations from more than just the Department of Mental Health I think the Department of Mental Health evaluation process is does help us whenever it comes to if someone is opine to need to come to the Department of Mental Health if we've done that initial evaluation it does make the treatment process go a little bit more smoothly because we are we we have certified our evaluators we know what to expect but nothing prevents that from happening today the courts sometimes do prefer that we would do that evaluation but we can do that now okay so I need somebody come talk to me because I'm yeah I'm getting conflicting information perhaps it's an education problem down in the judicial departments of our various counties but certainly the sheriff is not aware well and I also want to make sure that we are discussing that the the three different things that are going on here because there are three different things going on here so if they're talking truly about evaluation or actually entry and entry into the Department of Mental Health system they both feel like you're getting entry into the Department of Mental Health system but the 437 is what we typically hear more from on this the sheriff's the folks that are stuck in the jail which which kind of points to that jail-based restoration thing admittedly we really can't turn them loose now you had suggested that there's some segment of that that we might be able to if we can get them on their medication etc etc but how are we paying for that because right now DOC is paying for that at a fairly high rate when I think that person needs to we got to find a different way to pay for that if we're going to use the jail as a treatment area and which I don't agree with and I don't think you do either I think it's a it's a stopgap kind of a thing but but our jails are not technically qualified or even prepared to manage folks with severe mental illness issues and so now it becomes a population segregation problem and where do we put these people etc and and so I need to also talk to somebody more about that jail-based restoration and on the forcing people to do medication I appreciate that but if they're if they're mentally ill to the point where they're incompetent I mean I don't see how we don't have the option of mandating their medication so that is something we can do inside the Department of Mental Health Hospitals but in a county jail that's so do we need a change in the statute to allow you to have that same authority at the county jail level let us follow up with you on that and discuss discuss what that really does mean because that's a lot of liability there's a lot of medical things that go into that well I do want to talk can I ask a little bit yeah just one other thing on that I mean one strategy that might work for that is just tell them it's fentanyl because they don't have any trouble taking that right so just had to throw that one in there at the last but please do go ahead I did want to just offer that the jail-based restoration and forensic mobile teams are two different things that we have going on and jail-based restoration is actually limited in which jails we will actually do that in so right now we have a program that's getting ready to start in Jackson County we have a program in Clay County that was running we lost staff we're gonna get staff back it will be up and running we have a program in st. Louis County and then we also are working on getting a program set up in st. Louis City so we're focusing that program on jails that are probably already doing a level of behavioral health treatment in their facilities today and they also have a volume of individuals that can benefit from the jail-based restoration okay can you provide us with where these 252 people are at what jails there are 252 open pretrials yeah yeah we'll do our best yes okay yeah just a list broke down by County how many are in each one of them it says there's two things that are significant component of the of the issues related to pretrial confinement one of them is the Medicaid issue which we're working on and and the director over at Mo Health that is wants to help us solve that problem and that's gonna take a little bit of federal action as you well know and the other one is this mental health issue I'm hearing is 25% your numbers are telling me it's something different that there's 25% of those folks that are being held in our county jails because of a mental health evaluation or other I would say I would say if you were a jail and you were looking at your entire jail population you would be able to say 25% of them are there because of a mental illness substance use disorder type thing behavioral health issue I'm saying that fit across the whole state 50% of the people that the court refers to us to evaluate we will come back and say are incompetent to stand trial and need to go through competency restoration you said half of them yeah okay and that number you're thinking is this 252 half of the 252 but those that the other half of that is people who are waiting on an evaluation that you think will result in a you're competent to stand trial determination and so that's the number that I really want to get at also I mean that's the prime one because that's what we get them moving through the system right right and and reduce that please do I mean that's I'm right now and I'm the middle of this jail per diem talk and I would really love it if we had at least a framework for what we can do to get this thing moving right right and just so the committee is aware the Department of Corrections does pay a per diem while you wait for someone to come to the state the Department of Mental Health does not currently have the ability to do that correct yeah but that may be part of any commitment that we make here in order to because we got a loosen up the system we got to put some grease on it so it starts moving right because that's gonna save us money in the long run we're staring at 43 million to 60 million jail per diem and this problem is getting worse it's not getting better so that so what I'd rather save money over there and put it here where it's going to do some good right okay thank you very much mr. chair okay so and and you mentioned a couple of times and even in response represent somebody represent make you conversation y'all talked about it and and Kansas City and hundred new beds and new hospital and and not that's the solution all your problems but some increased capacity you know can't hurt situation but with our existing capacity so Fulton you know around the state and obviously staffing over the many years has been maybe we talk about it less now but it's you know often been the primary consideration or topic of conversation I think that's gotten better but I'm curious is that as it relates to staffing and then capacity are all our beds that are you know potentially available and existing are they all online or do we still have wards that do the staffing or some other reason that you know the capacity is kind of sitting there today it's just due to staffing or some other reason like it's just not able to be utilized what's situation on that so we do have two group homes in st. Louis that are not staffed we don't have FTE to staff those two group homes so that would be the only capacity that we would have in our system that it's not being utilized today overall I will just to speak to kind of our it is getting better I do want to say that our staffing is getting in the group homes wouldn't be applicable to the competency restoration and actually use those so those group homes are at our forensic treatment center South Campus so we do competency restoration in st. Louis at our forensic treatment center North Campus when people are not able to be restored to competency they then move to our our longer term tree okay so that could be a step down that would open up right absolutely it's part of that step down process and we also could operate those beds on an outpatient basis so we we would probably want to talk about what would make the most sense because that would give us some outpatient capacity in the st. Louis area where I think we probably can move that outpatient restoration process forward quickly more quickly so give me speak to some staffing real quick sure that'd be great okay so we I'm gonna talk about staffing in two buckets I'm gonna talk about direct care staffing because that's really really important those are the folks that are with everybody every day but health care staffing clinical staffing is also really really critical if we don't have the right clinical staffing in place we can't get people restored to competency quick as quick as we want to we can't get them treated we can't get them out the door so we've seen and thank you General Assembly for all of the investments you've made into compensation it has been I've been with the state for 24 years these comp these investments in compensation are making a difference so just quickly our turnover rate as an agency was at its high in 2021 around 40% we're now down to 32% that's nowhere I mean it's not perfect but it is a place to be our turnover for our hardest to fill positions which used to be our hardest to fill positions our support care assistant turnover has dropped from 65 to 70% to roughly 60% our RN turnover has dropped from 36% to 22% so we are seeing we are making a difference in that overall if you were just to look at our department's total FTE we had we're budgeted for a little over 7,000 FTE at the Department of Mental Health in 2022 we ended the year with 5,975 FTE and in2024, we ended the year with 6,754 FTE. So we're still about 500 below where we need to be, but that is substantially better than where we were when we were talking to you in 2022. One of the other challenges we have at the Department of Mental Health is getting people committed to work full-time for us. So our full-time staffing numbers have also increased, and that's because when you work part-time, you don't get all of those pay increase type things. So if you look at just our part-time, we want our part-time staffing numbers to go down. In 2023, our part-time staffing numbers were at their highest at 1,820 people. That's down to 1,327. I would really like to see that number well below 1,000. We do need part-time staff. You're always gonna need part-time staff when you operate healthcare, but that is something that we also, we would like to get those people moved to full-time so that we can really rely on them coming in and helping us take care of these Missourians that need our support. Now, if you look at our clinical, right now, our vacancy rate for our support care assistance is 14.6%. Oh, wait, I'm sorry. Support care assistance is 5.7. Security support care assistance is 14.6. So our vacancy rate, we can get people in the door right now. We have the base wages to get people in the door to at least try this work. Unfortunately, we do still have 60% turnover, so we have to continue to work on how we keep people once we get them in the door. So that's good news. Where our biggest vacancy rates are for us right now are among our clinicians. Our social worker vacancy rate right now is 72.6%. Our psychologist vacancy rate is 41.5%. Our psychiatry vacancy rate is 40.9, and our registered nurse is 18.2. What does that mean in numbers? Because I like numbers better than percents, but if you look at our psychologists, that means that we have 30.5 psychology positions across our system vacant, and that means we have 95.2 licensed clinical social workers across our system vacant. So we should have 130 licensed clinical social workers. We only have 34.8 of those filled. We recently did a significant recruitment effort just on those clinicians, that clinician field. We can get, so one of the challenges we have is also where our facilities are located. I mean, it's, you know, but even with that, we can get people to be interested and call us about jobs at Fulton State Hospital. When we get to the salary we pay for those clinicians, that's where we run into our largest problem. So clinician salary, and I know you guys know this, like RN salary has dramatically increased. All of the clinician salaries have dramatically increased, partly because there is a finite number of them that can do this work, and then even more of them are able to do it tele now, and in our facilities, you can't do this work tele. There's no telemedicine option. You need to be in the facility delivering the service. So I'm optimistic about where we're at with direct care staff right now. We are able to get people in the door. We gotta do a better job of convincing them that this is the best job you're ever gonna have, and so we're gonna keep working on that, but then still concerned about our clinicians, and just getting new clinicians in the door. What about agency or contracted staff? Do you still rely on agency and contracted staff? For RNs, that works. For psychiatrists, that works sometimes. Very, very difficult for psychologists and licensed clinical social workers, because again, they can take a job somewhere else that's a tele job, and you can't get that in our facility. So while we have the ability to contract for those physicians, we are not able to do that, and I have it, but I don't have it with me on what that would cost per hour. Of course, you are aware it's significantly more expensive. It's not the same one-to-one pay ratio. And we're always gonna need to be able to contract for staff at the Department of Mental Health, because we're gonna have issues that arise where it doesn't make sense to hire. We have an issue right now in a part of the state where we have an individual on a vent, and they're not gonna be on a vent forever. I don't need to hire three LPNs to manage that person. It makes sense for me to contract for that right now, but not in our daily operations at Fulton State Hospital or some of our other ones. We are still struggling, too, on the direct, I mean, overall, direct care is looking better. There are parts of the state where it's harder for us than other parts of the state. So in Higginsville, for example, we're still relying on direct care contracted staff, too, because it's a hard place to staff, mostly because there's not a lot of folks there to fill those jobs. On the two group homes in the St. Louis area that aren't currently staffed, how many beds does that represent? I think that is 16 beds total? Yes, two eight-bed group homes. Representative Owen, I still have a question, inquiry. You may proceed. A lot of the direction I was wanting to go, Representative Mayhew, is covered, but I also would like to be involved in that discussion because, to me, we've gotta figure out how we can work with these county jails. I understand that the sheriff feels that he has to be in control because he's the elected official for law enforcement in the county, but if we've got people sitting in there that need medications and they're not getting the medications, we're just setting everybody back that much further, and whether it's statutes or what have you, we need to look at trying to resolve this issue, so include me in that, too, if you will. Absolutely, Representative. Representative Steinmeier, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Appreciate everything you're doing. This issue is, for me, the more we get into it, it's like an onion. The more layers you peel, the more you cry when you see the condition of some of our residents in Missouri, and I appreciate the discussion in the prisons and in the jails, what we have to do to help with their situations. I wanna talk more, and we can do it offline, it's okay. I wanna talk more about that post-release, because in my district now, not specifically in my district, although we do see some, the Kansas City area has a lot of struggles, and we do have a great program there that is helping, but like everything else, they're underfunded, and like what you're describing in HELP, we have more customers than we have HELP, and somewhere, we've gotta be able to balance this out, and yes, it's money, and we know that we, bless their hearts, I mean, it's a calling to do what they do, because they're not getting rich, and I know that we have programs, like in my city, I helped start with the fire department a program called ARCH in Independence, and it stands for Alternative Response for Community Health, and we have social workers, and we'd like to go 24-7, but we can't, we don't have the funding, because it's coming out of fire budget, but it's an alternative, and a way of helping reach people that are struggling, and you see them all over town, and you realize, and I ride with the police, the police do one thing, they go out and enforce law, fire goes out to assist, and to help, and so I would like to have more discussion offline if we need to, because opioids are, let's face it, that's our greatest challenge in people's health and safety in this state, and that's a struggle, and I know that addiction is a big issue, it's a mental health issue, and we have to begin to address that. My question to you is, with the help, you kind of addressed this, but the levels of education that they have to achieve to be able to work in this community, and the amount of, I'm sure, college debt, and now we're looking at pay being just X amount of dollars, are we losing them just solely to pay? We lose them to a couple of things, one, pay is a challenge for us, we can repay student loans, and we do that when we can, we can't always, but we have been able to lately, when we can, we also like to work with our team members, so if we have somebody who comes in, let's say as a direct care, and they wanna move to nursing, or they wanna new, we'll try to work with them so that we can support them while they go to school and do those kind of things. I think the work environment is probably, in our facilities, probably our largest challenge, and we are pushing, like, you have to be pushing these resources in the community, because we wanna get people stable in the community so that they don't end up, I mean, there's always going to be individuals, we've been doing this business for a long time, there's always gonna be individuals that are gonna need to come into our system, because their mental illness is just so severe, but if we can continue to try to get people earlier, and get them stable in the community earlier, and get them used to having access to services earlier, hopefully we can kinda see our trend go the other way, I wanna see that 40% increase go down, and not stay stable right now, so we've added a lot of those community resources over the last few years, we've added 988, that's new, it's a toddler, we've added our behavioral health crisis centers, and we're hearing from our counties across the state that they wanna see those expanded across the state, so we've added some resources just recently to help people when they're in that initial crisis, but they are new resources. Well, and I appreciate that, part of my concern is, because, you know, we have a budget that only goes so far. Right, absolutely. We can only do so much, but partnering with local communities that have successful programs, or are doing things that are really working, may be a good alternative in terms of best bang for the buck. Absolutely. And that's why I think we need to look at the communities that are making these efforts, that are footing the bill, and some of them, they're taking out of precious resources of their budget, like fire, and helping partner with them to help them facilitate a greater outreach, as well as the private investment. They're, you know, and that's my thing, is I wanna see a combination of private and public investment into the communities, and I think we have to work on those issues so that we can do more at our state facilities, but we're not neglecting the communities that we also serve. So I'd love to have more discussion on that.and then the last thing somewhere if we could I want I'm concerned about the fact that we're putting patients that are struggling with mental health issues in with seniors who are living the last days of their lives and we're combining them in facilities because I'll tell you right now that was happening if my parent or grandparent was in there and I and I saw this I would have a real struggle with this. That was my third that's my third critical issue. I'll shut up now so I'll let you do the time. Thank you Mr. Chair. Representative Black you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair. Directors are very well aware substance abuse mental health in my view is probably the largest problem facing our society and I know as we go through this book you're going to explain a lot of things that department's doing to address those circumstances to try to get on the front end of it I would suggest that 40% increase in people suggest needing and competency evaluations is directly related to substance abuse in this state and with regard to the discussion that we've had so far in jail-based I mean I know Representative Brown I know Representative Hovis as well as several the rest of us want to be involved in that discussion competency and so I would suggest maybe you have a little you know subgroup opportunity for those of us interested to to discuss that it's a complicated problem as you've already tried I mean we talked about evaluation we've talked about restoration those terms seem to be mixed sometimes and we don't understand exactly what the department's trying to do with both of those those issues so this is just a suggestion that you have a little group for us to get together those of us are interested in the the reimbursement to the counties and why that's problematic and I know there's been discussion so far that maybe we ought to move money from here to there to deal with that problem but I think you've already said money may not be the problem providers may be a problem my understanding is there's some jails that aren't particularly welcoming to your efforts is that the truth director we do run into that occasionally yes but please understand we have a lot of great partners both in law enforcement and in in the jails across the state oh I know you do I mean a lot of people do this if we were not all working together at all a lot of people working on this problem so that's just a little suggestion for a little subgroup all right thank you thank you representative Rowdy you have an inquiry you may proceed thank you mr. chair I'm gonna give my annual shout out and for those who are new I think maybe I'm more than most people on this committee and I struggle with calling director director instead of miss Val my mom for decades worked for the department and I really want us to understand how hard this job is when we speak in terms of paying of course we know money won't solve all the problems I think it's a big portion of this problem I was able to go to college went on to get my master's in mental health counseling because of my relation to this department I was able to do a part of my master's internship at the department right there in Bell Fountain so it's like this department raised me and provided opportunities for my family that that economic mobility because it was a good state job 25 years ago right the salary hasn't changed much the economy has and my mom you know worked with the severe of the severe the ones who live there right and sometimes you get punched hit spit on kick body slam my mom has plates in her neck courtesy with every Department of Mental Health both because she got it while she was at work but also the insurance was immaculate we do right by insurance what I'm trying to say is is that when we say that these are facilities and you all are right I would love to be on on the subgroup with representative black and have that conversation but when we're talking about we have facilities we could use but we're so understaffed or that we don't have the FTE to staff them we really I really want us to have a conversation about that even if not for all 26 because we are putting other departments in a bit of a pinch for such a vulnerable population so that's my annual shout out I'll do it again next year I just I'll admit to being biased obviously this is my favorite department in the state because so much of it cultivated who I am as a person and honestly is in large part why I'm here as a state representative today so shout out to y'all and thank you for I mean they look at all these people that come in this know that's the caliber of work these individuals do every day it's emotionally and mentally taxing but they do it anyway and they do it for we owe you all more than what we give you for sure I'm gonna try I'm gonna do my best but yeah I just wanted to go ahead and say that thank you mr. chair representative Brown you have an inquiry you may proceed Thank You mr. chairman I'll be brief I just want to clear up you said like that 439 people that are sitting in county jail waiting 14 months there's no reimbursement to the county for them that's correct there's no reimbursement okay I think that's a real opportunity to partner with these counties because I mean you're spending 40,000 a year taking care of this person if I could take half of that money and give them some help I'd rather do that so I appreciate representative black and mayhew and this group that we got together because this really came out as a major problem for the counties absolutely so I'd like to be in on that group too thank you I hope there's someone back there like taking down names add me in there all right okay any additional opening well I do have I'm sorry unfortunately I have three other wait lists to talk about so okay let's keep talking about yeah the second wait list we want to talk about and I know that you guys hear about this one too are individuals that I we call them individual well I call them individuals that are boarding in a more restrictive setting so we have individuals with developmental disabilities and mental illnesses that are boarding in hospitals jails and homeless shelters across the state most of these individuals are eligible for services within the division of developmental disability but they are very very difficult to place that number has been going down it was about 40 last year we're down to about 19 of those individuals right now but that is a priority population for us to support and so I just want to make sure you're aware of that there's some new decision items around boarding in hospitals later in our budget that will speak to that to nursing facility individuals that are in nursing facilities with serious mental illness we know that there are about over 4,000 individuals in nursing homes with a behavioral health diagnosis under the age of 65 excluding dementia so we've done the math on this again our goal is always we want people to be safe and we recognize that the nursing home does provide that safety and security but we need to continue to work with individuals to get them out of this setting and so we have a couple new decision items on that front the last year we had two nursing homes in the state of Missouri closed that were supporting a large number of individuals with serious mental illness that put a huge strain on the system and we have still have nursing homes in this state that are currently being managed by a temporary manager because it is very difficult to support that population in a nursing facility setting so we have a couple of new decision items in the budget to try to help get people out of a nursing home that are in a nursing home and get services delivered inside a nursing home and then to build that community capacity because you still got to have a place to live and housing is one of our largest challenges the last waitlist I want to talk about are individuals with developmental disabilities that do not have a funded waiver slot and that's actually going to be in the first decision item we pick up so I'm gonna give you that first and then we can move into the budget if there are no other questions and we'll kind of talk through that on the funding side so right now we have Martin you have something on this please proceed 4000 mental health patients in nursing homes why is that it's that because they they have to accept them they can't turn them away to put in another facility what is there I mean that is there's a lot of different reasons why someone may end up in a nursing facility one you have to have a medical reason to go into a nursing facility so you could be discharged from a hospital with a medical reason to go into a nursing facility that medical reason may correct itself but you may still be in that nursing facility because there's really nowhere else for you to go and if you've got a serious mental illness and you're not getting the level of treatment you need there is treatment for a serious mental illness in nursing homes I'm not gonna say that there's not but there is a there's a level of treatment that you may not be able to get there that we may be able to do better outside of a nursing facility okay then our final our nurse are well I'm sorry yeah director representative Fogle thank you to go back so thank you to go back to a waitlist number two quickly can you just say what that included those are individuals in hospitals jails and shelters and that is 19 total people right now 19 down I mean we've been working that one pretty hard so we either work with community providers to get them plays with community providers we use our habilitation center beds as crisis beds for discharge from hospital these are restrictive not very safe settings or those are really our two primary places that we go for discharge okay and would that be the category I know we've every year we have conversations about children that are living in hospitals because yeah unfortunately if they're children they're typically with the Children's Division they're not going to be with the department would be reflected in that number right okay thanks okay then the next item would be individuals with developmental disabilities without a funded waiver slot we have 579 of those individuals waiting for in-home supports a hundred and six individuals that are waiting for residential supports we have about a hundred individuals that are currently being added per month 650 individuals right now that are in department division of developmental disability services but the highest level of need are also waiting for an alternative provider so we have individuals that have saideither they need more services and we're not able to get them for them or they need a change in service. A provider has said I can no longer support this individual. So those are those are kind of our waitlist numbers. On that it's not just one waiver. No there are there's the comprehensive waiver which is residential services, there is the community support waiver which is in home services, and there's the partnership for hope waiver which is a lower level of in-home services that is partially supported by our county developmental disability boards. Okay you don't have to to the extent you even have it try to just rattle off the numbers but can you follow up or could someone follow up with the the waitlist by waiver for supplemental and operating and then for operating I guess it would maybe be applicable to supplemental too especially for operating what the projection I mean there's a we know to a point in time but then what the project I think you said like a hundred by month but the breakdown like what the looking forward what the projection is as well. Thank you. Representative Browdy you have an inquiry you may proceed. Yes Mr. Chairman you nailed it I just wanted to know if we can get the the numbers for the list that you have and also representative Mayhew the term you were looking for is malingering. Word of the day. Okay let's see here I think so are you are we on page two? I'm Molly Beckman I am the director of administrative services for the department I'm gonna go through the first book it is core in NDIs it's department-wide and director's office and operational support and then we'll turn it over to the programmatic divisions when we're through book two or through book one sorry page two book one looks like this in case you need it so on page two this is a new decision item for our utilization cost increase the 26 recommendation is a hundred and one million GR 184 million federal for a total of 285.8 million the difference between the department we request and the governor recommended is updated projections due to mental health youth so this new decision item is growth due to Medicaid clients accessing DMH services for the first time or utilizing most more services and this is through our contracted community providers so the 285 million broken down by DBH was which is the Division of Behavioral Health is 72 million and DD is 214 million page six is the next new decision item before we move on from that one mm-hmm can you tell me and I don't know you might need to provide some follow-up on this as well but I assume you at least have you know for the dollar amount the breakdown on for this cost to continue because we really have two different things going on here at least it seems to me which could I guess fairly be described as cost to continue one you might could also in my mind describe it as a kind of programmatic expansion but how much of the 285 million a little more than that but is to you know the increased cost to continue to serve the people that were already serving and how much of that is for new slots or to you know expanded to serve you know additional people beyond the current level of service it's in here but can we just break out and give it to you because I don't love the way we have to present it in this book right now it's hard to follow so can we get you something that's a little bit easier to follow yeah that'd be great that'd be great and just to get the breakdown of you know what is for you know who's already kind of in the door and what's for the you know the people that we believe are gonna present you know over the course of the year that would be be helpful so any other questions on the utilization obviously we've been talking about it before we even got to this page but very good we can go to page six then okay page six is a new decision item this is not recommended by the governor and a federal court throughout this rule in December so we are not needing this funds that these funds now page eight this is a new decision item for environmental goods and services this fund funding is five hundred and sixty-five thousand general revenue this funds ongoing inflationary costs to provide medical care food and housekeeping and janitorial for our state operated facilities the 24 sevens page 12 this is the new decision item for the f-map adjustment my health net was here explained that this is the federal Medicaid medical assistance percentage the rate in which the federal government matches Medicaid payments it's twenty six point three million in Department of Mental Health so you will see corresponding federal core reductions in the amount the amount of twenty six million as well page 15 is a new decision item for the FY 26 pay plan this is nine point two million dollars this funds a one percent salary increase for every two years of continuous state service caps out at ten percent this also funds 24 7 facilities that have already received this time of service pay plan they will get a 1% Cola okay moving to page 28 representative may he have a inquiry on the pay plan yes thank you mr. just real quick and and I had this problem with with a previous one that was similar in nature on page 17 just give me a quick line by line kind of summary of what I'm looking at there so it on the gov rec dollar where that we have the GR and then the federal component of that particular position is that correct that's and all that comes up to the 39 19 and now is that the increase in salary yes that's just the increase okay so my way of comparison is there an easy way to see what that position is drawing right now yes not not in this book no there actually used to be in the book it would have the departed the Helen is smiling at me because they used to be in the book and it is not in the book anymore so and so that's what I had remembered so the first time I saw this it was like man I can't figure this out what what are we actually doing this is also just a new decision item so it would have only ever showed the new decision item amount but we used to have a coding detail that was included in the book that did include all of that you still have that as would you please make that available to the yep I appreciate that is it back in the core okay the job class details at the end of book three in book three okay thank you very much well now see that service for you right there ask and you shall receive and it's not the way it used to look it used to be in a different spot all right thank you very much thank you mr. chair okay I think we're on page 28 this is the core for the director's office it's seven hundred and seventy five thousand dollars seven point eight two FTE this supports the department director staff and the Mental Health Commission page thirty three this is the core for overtime this is 1.3 million dollars of general revenue this is a department-wide appropriation shared by all the 24-7 facilities and this is not nearly what we pay in overtime we use our regular PS in the depart in the facilities first before we use all of this funding and you will see cost to continue in the supplemental for for this page 38 this is the core for contracted staffing so this is what we use to contract for staff due to staffing shortages in FY 25 this was funded for one time so on page 43 there's an NDI to continue this funding and it's twenty six point nine million dollars this estimate estimate is based on what we're seeing in in 24 sevens for FY 25 page 46 is a core decision item for operational support this is twelve point six million dollars one hundred and twenty six point five FTE this is a wide range of administration and financial services for the whole department it also includes some of the department overhead expenses page 54 is a cost to continue of the supplemental for legal representation it's seven hundred thousand dollars GR representative Hausman you have an inquiry may proceed Thank You mr. chair I have some questions about this legal representation in in FY 25 operating appropriations was 270,000 and the FYI 25 supplemental request is for an additional 700,000 and I'm trying to understand this because there I know this was like a lawsuit and we had to seek other law another law firm outside of the Attorney General could you explain that a little bit more so this is actually the law the legal firm we are using to represent the state in our Department of Justice settlement proceedings so there was a Department of Justice investigation that invest and part of the reason the funding looks like this and we're kind of asking for it on a one-time basis until we don't need it any longer part of the reason it looks like this is that investigation was finalized in June of last year so we've been using legal counselSo a little bit last year, more this year. We're expecting more in the next fiscal year. It'll depend on when we get to it. So right now, the investigation's completed and we are in a settlement stage of that investigation with the Department of Justice. And so we worked with the Attorney General's office. They agreed that we probably need to focus on getting legal counsel that was more experienced handling Department of Justice settlements. Fortunately, we don't do a lot of Department of Justice settlements here in Missouri. That's not a bad thing. Okay, so there is another. So the total was like 1.7 million? Over the course of all of this. And a lot of this is just, we're asking for the same appropriation amount. Once we achieve settlement, we can stop paying the attorneys. This also is for all three agencies that are in the settlement agreement process. So these attorneys represent health and senior services, social services, and mental health. We've put the funding in mental health's budget because we are the biggest part of this settlement. And we, all of us have previously have a contract with this legal firm. They represent us with federal things on a regular basis. But this is, it's just easier if we put it in one place than trying to put it in three places. So the same firm's been handling the case throughout? Yes, absolutely. How does DSS and DHSS access these funds? So we have an MOU between all three of us that we've signed about utilizing this legal counsel. So the legal counsel is here to represent the state. And that's what they're doing here. Okay, well thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Prowdy, you have an inquiry on this item. You may proceed. Yes, sir, quickly. Is it a consent decree or just a settlement? Right now, we are just in a settlement process. Very good, okay, thank you. Okay, moving to page 57. This is for staff training. It's about $1.8 million. This is training needed for direct care staff and maintenance of costs for our learning management system. Page 66, this is the core for employee support resources. This shows zero because this was one-time funding at a one-time cash source. It is recommended by the governor again on page 72. So this is support for our employees, much like Representative Prowdy talked about, they experience workplace trauma. And this helps support those employees in those situations. Page. Representative Hausman, you have an inquiry on this item. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Last year, DMH had said that they had a conversation with MCHCP regarding support involvement for the summit. Conversations continued, but at the time, Comp Psych had a shortage of workplace trauma focused counseling services. Could you provide us with update regarding the ability to support and be involved in the summit? Yes, and we'll give you an update on that. But I do also want to share, Comp Psych has a place supporting state employees, but sometimes what you're dealing with is a little bit, okay, first, it's not a service you can access quickly. And so this is a service that we can put on the ground immediately whenever we have an event occur in a facility. And then Comp Psych is more of a telemedicine service, and this allows us, and we still will refer to Comp Psych from this, but this allows us to gauge short-term and long-term needs of our staff. Great, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, page 76. Is any, and I think, I can't remember what the gov rec was last year, but however, I'm sure you all requested it, probably as you requested it now, and it was flipped, and you requested it as GR, and the governor's flipped it here again. But I'm curious whether or not any general revenue was ever used to pay for it or not. But is any of this attributable to, is there any federal grant or program to specifically support these sorts of activities, or any kind of a match, or is there any kind of Medicaid, I mean? We could probably explore looking at if there was an ability to get some match on, it's gonna be one of those after-the-fact things like an admin match. So if we were doing this with individuals that were operating in our state-operated community support programs, we could bill that time to Medicaid, but we won't know that until that would actually happen. As far as the state hospitals, that's not an option. And how you've operated it so far, is it a kind of a set contract, or like it's just this is what it costs, we expend all of it, or it's more as needed, like when the, and so some years you might spend more than others, and it's? Predominantly a staff resource, so it's really more about we have a team that then responds to locations, and if we're not responding because of a critical incident, which unfortunately that's what we've spent the bulk of our time on, we can work on some more, every day is gonna be stressful in one of these locations, but we can work on other things that can help staff manage stressful situations. So we can, it's more of a wellness piece when we're not doing the critical incident response and peers. We also have a lot of peers in our, thank you, we have a lot of peers in our system that have volunteered to work in this, so we have staff that manage those peers that help respond, and we also try, just this is, if you've been through a debrief, it's a really cool process, and a really great support for your team, but we bring in peers from other locations to help support the peers at that location, whenever we have an incident. Thank you. Thank you. On page 76, this is the core for refunds. It's 940,500 in authority to make refunds. Page 82, this is the debt offset escrow transfer. It's $25,000. This allows DMH the ability to intercept tax refunds owed to the department. Page 87 is the abandoned fund account transfer. This is $100,000. This transfers fund from the abandoned account fund to the mental health trust fund. We have a new decision item associated with this one on page 92. So what has happened here is there's just more funds that are allocated to be transferred that we need appropriate authority for. Representative Brown, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Okay, I'm trying to wrap my mind, so an abandoned fund account is unclaimed property? Yes, there is a statute that we follow. So if a patient or a resident leaves the care of the department and leaves personal funds, we try and locate them to refund the money. But after one year, if we can't locate them, that's deposited into the abandoned fund. And then if nobody claims those after two years, amounts are transferred to the mental health trust fund. So they're given three years. I see, okay. I was trying to make sure that, so there is notice that goes out to, or we try to find these individuals. And this is in section 63320. Thank you so much, thank you. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Yes, thank you, Ms. Chair. Real quick on that same item, what steps do we take to track down either them or their relatives on that issue? So, I mean, we're gonna follow up with whoever we have listed as a next of kin type situation. If we can't find somebody, a lot of times, we have a lot of folks that have public administrator guardians, too. So it gets very, I mean. So that was the comment I was gonna make, is there might be some public administrator out there who's looking for this money. Right, they would be. Because they are always on the edge with their folks anyway. It's just that, yeah, they would be listed. And it's, the statute lays out who has the ability to claim the dollars. But we're proactive on that. It's not that, hey, as long as we don't say nothing, we're gonna get this over in our account. Obviously, we would really prefer it never happen and that we didn't have to have this conversation. All right, thank you. Okay, moving on on page 95. This is the Mental Health Trust Fund. This is $2.5 million in authority. So this is authority to expend money from non-federal grants, gifts, or donations, unclaimed funds, canteen profits to support delivery of service to DMH clients. Representative Steinhoff, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. I just wanna check. So although there's lapse, am I correct in thinking this isn't real money sitting in an account? This is just in case you were able to pull in some grants or some donations throughout the year, you're able to appropriate it? We have some long-term trusts that get paid out over a series of time and they use them. Some examples are like recreational activities and some of our 24-7s. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, page 101. This is the Corps for Federal Funds. It's $2.6 million in federal authority. This allows DMH to accept federal grants that become available during the fiscal year to where we couldn't get appropriation authority to come back. We would have to have a real quick supplemental. So this allows us to spend federal grants that we would receive throughout the year. Page 106. This is the Corps for Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities Upper Payment Limit. This is $18.5 million. This is a mechanism that allows the state of Missouri to capture additional federal funds through this claim on the DD habilitation centers. Page 111. This is one of those accounting mechanisms that we talked about during the supplemental. The Corps is $283.8 million, and this just allows us to show the federal government that we do have the state match to make our Medicaid payments, and those payments are made in other sections. Page 116. This is the IGT, also a piece of the IGT transfer. This puts the money back into GR after we've shown the federal government that we have it.This also includes the 50.8 million CCBHO transfer to GR. On page 121. So, okay, well that's 50 million of it for CCBHO, but what is the projected increase for CSTAR and CCBHO? Has that reflected somewhere else? That's on page 121. Well that is just the match piece of it, the actual services for CCBHO, and those items are in the first item we talked about, the utilization increase. Okay, can you just follow up with a breakdown on, just like break down the 237? Yes, I have it. You know, it's the CCBHO transfer due to the FMAP not being right as of today, and then whatever the increase for CSTAR, and just to kind of get a better picture of that. Thank you. Next item is on page 124. This is a new decision item. There are small amounts of CHIP kids that don't line up in the system because of the eligibility code. So DMH pays out of our fund 0148, but DSS draws it into 0159. We quarterly fix these issues, but there's still some that have, it doesn't fix the new ones, and it doesn't retroactively go back and fix the ones that were deposited in the wrong fund. So this is 20 million dollars of a, of transfer authority. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Yes, thank you Mr. Chair. Okay, so how, how does, how does this go through your department? What's, why is there CHIP money going through your department? So we fund Medicaid services, and we have kids that are Medicaid eligible through the CHIP program. So if you are a kid who is a CHIP Medicaid eligible, then we may not know that, our system may not know that you're CHIP Medicaid eligible whenever we pay your claim, but when social services goes to do the draw, they're going to go, oh that was a CHIP eligible kid. Well, we have no way to correct that right now, except for me, it's a manual correction process. Well, I appreciate that, but the, why isn't Mohealthnet or the, the provider taking care of this? Is, are these children that have, that are in your department somewhere? Right, they could be getting a DD waiver service, they could be getting a behavioral health service, but they're Medicaid eligible kids that are accessing services through the providers that we pay for, Medicaid providers that we pay for at the Department of Mental Health. The problem is, we pay the bill based off of what eligibility we have in our system, but when they actually go do the claim against the Fed, the big federal claim that they do at social services, they are like, this is their eligibility, so this is how we draw, and then we draw the money into this CHIP fund versus into DMH's Medicaid fund. Yeah, but it seems redundant for some reason. Is, is there a reason why we have to follow that process rather than your department just making a referral over to? Well, we would still need to pay the bill for the service. Like, our providers that, the funding for the service that is provided is happening at the Department of Mental Health. And that increases efficiency somehow. I, well, the way the federal funds are drawn, that is, the departments did not set that up. That's been set up over time in cooperation with the legislature. Well, I can appreciate that you're writing the check for the bill, and then you need to draw from these other accounts. And what I'm trying to get at is that we gain some efficiency with that, with those providers that you rely on every day, because they can get the check now instead of waiting for this all to get cleaned up, to all come through the system, so they're not filing two pieces of paper. But our, but in our stuff, right, is there, is there a gained efficiency with that? Or maybe, maybe over at MohealthNet or wherever, they need a department that manages that. I think it's probably as much about just, people can change Medicaid eligibility category kind of daily, almost. Okay, now that, that's right. So that is probably something that you really can never overcome. Because the child still got the issue. Right, right. Right, but they may become, yeah, I got it. Okay, all right, thanks. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know, we talked a lot about this last year, as I recall, seems like. So this is, so on page 125, we got this, this will allow the transfer funding from newly established CHIP fund to the DMH federal fund, and this is a transfer. Why, why do we need to transfer? I mean, I get the whole soliloquy with Representative Mayhew, and we don't know, and we can't know, and so, you know, got to catch up. But why can't we just pay out of this fund directly? What, maybe that's, I'm still missing that part. Why do we need to, why do we need the transfer? Why can't we just get out of it? Well, I would say it'll get better over time. So when we first kind of started doing this, we're learning more about, as we pay bills and we get claims back, we're learning more about what we should be paying out of a CHIP fund in our budget versus what we should be paying out of a regular fund. So we're getting better at that, but when we first started this a few years ago, we did not, we did not do a great job of telling you that this is how much CHIP authority we needed versus this is how much regular Medicaid authority we needed. And this just represents a transfer authority amount. We would transfer the amount that we would actually need, like we'll balance up at the end of the year. And because the CHIP, and I don't recall it offhand, but the CHIP rate's better than the FMAP rate, so there's a, you know, so if we ever, and if it was ever consistent enough over time, and I don't know if it, obviously you're going to have different people and different, but maybe it's relatively stable then, you know, because as it is right now, and again this is 20 million, I'm not sure what the actual number is, you know, or how big of a phenomenon it is or isn't, and I can't recall the entire discussion from last year, but, you know, it could be that we, you know, the GR call and what we think we have is not, you know, is not misrepresented, but we're overestimating that to the extent we have this CHIP eligibility, which again, you don't, you're not in that eligibility business for Medicaid, so you don't know this till after the fact. And we've talked about this internally too. We want to do a better job on our utilization new decision item of trying to get that split better, so you'll see over time, like changes out of which federal fund we're funding it out of, which federal appropriation, so. Okay, thank you. Okay, page 127. This is the disproportionate share hospital transfer, so we are able to earn DISH funds in our state psychiatric hospitals. The first 92.8 million of that goes to the uncompensated care and DSS, and whatever is left, it's usually between 40 and 50 million we transfer to GR, so that's this transfer. Page 132, this is SWOPE health improvements. This was, in the 25 budget, this was 1.5 million in general revenue for SWOPE health in Kansas City. This was funded for one-times funds, and there is a re-appropriation recommended in House Bill 17. Page 137, this is the North Kansas City Hospital renovation. Same situation here. There was 10 million in general revenue appropriated for 25, and it's one, was funded as one time. However, we don't think they're going to spend all of that this year, so it's, re-appropriation is also recommended in House Bill 17. Page 142, CSTAR provider renovations. This was 250,000 in opioid funding for a CSTAR clinic in St. Louis City, and this was funded as one-time funds, so it's core reduced here, and this has all been spent. Page 147 is the legal expense transfer for one dollar. Representative Black, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Ms. Chair. With, the director can talk faster than 99% of the population can write, including me, so all those statistics you gave us up front about whitelist, I give those to you. Thank you, bye. It's my New Year's resolution every year to talk slower, and I'm a failure every year. Okay, we'll turn it over to Booker T. Yeah, our Division of Behavioral Health, Norah Bach and Vicki Schomel will come up. Good morning, Representative Deaton, Chair Deaton, and the rest of the committee. I'm happy to be here in front of you. My name is Norah Bach, and I'm the director of the Division of Behavioral Health, and next to me is Vicki Schomel, and she is the deputy director for administration within that division. I've been listening back here in the gallery here, so I just do want to make a couple of comments. First, thank you for your service. The amount of information you were asked to process during any legislative session is unbelievable, and I appreciate how many questions you field from constituents about our programs. I know it's a lot, and I really appreciate the questions that you've been posing because it demonstrates to us that you are interested.in our programs and interested in learning more. So I think we're all anxious to be able to offer any sort of additional in-service for as many people who are interested in attending that, because I've been in my role about four years now, and there are aspects of the competency restoration process that I still ask multiple questions about. So I applaud you for keeping up with it as well as you have, and so we're happy to always entertain additional questions or come talk to you at a different time. Before I get into our book, it helps me conceptually to think about the Division of Behavioral Health. I wish I had a whiteboard. I think one right here would be great, because our division is complicated. We have more acronyms, I think, than most other departments, and if you are interested at some point, I've developed a program org chart. It's not a staff org chart, and what it does is generally break up how our division operates. So we have community services. That's the bulk of where people are treated. We have our inpatient facilities. That's the bulk of where our employees work, and then in between is what you've been hearing a lot about, and those are forensic services. Those are individuals who are coming from the community via the law enforcement or justice system, and then come into our inpatient facility, but it is a large circle, so the efforts of the division are multiple in that we want to prevent issues as early as we can. If there are crisis situations, we wanna address them. If we can divert individuals from the justice system or the health system, we wanna do that. Once we get folks into services, we wanna provide good treatment for them, and then we also wanna get them on the path for long-term recovery of their chronic conditions, whether those be mental illness or substance use disorders, and our goal is always to do those things in the least restrictive environment to promote massive, mass, to promote maximum independence for individuals that we serve. So I wanted to sort of say we've got those three buckets, and as we go through, I'll try to let you know kind of which bucket that's coming from. Another overarching concept I want to share with you is that regardless of the programs for the Division of Behavioral Health, we have five areas that we focus on. One of those is the reduction of symptoms of a behavioral health disorder. So for individuals with mental illness, that might mean they have fewer symptoms or less severe symptoms, and for substance use disorders, that can mean abstinence or reduced use, but in both parts, we're trying to help people, individuals manage their illness symptoms over their lifetime. The second main goal is to help individuals gain and maintain stable employment or educational opportunities. Third, we want people to have secure, safe, and stable housing. Fourth, we emphasize the prevention or decreasing involvement with the justice system, and fifth, again, no matter what you're doing, our goal is to help improve and increase positive and supportive social relationships. Those five areas are generally key to an individual's success, and I think if we reflect back on our own lives and look at our own successes in those domains, we would probably agree that that's what helps a person stay pretty stable and successful in their community. So those five principles apply to our department. I do wanna note, too, for the individuals who are newer to this body, you're gonna see in the budget book distinctions between substance use disorder programs and mental health programs, and the reason for that is a little more than a decade ago, two divisions came together. There was a division of alcohol and drug abuse, and there was a division of comprehensive psychiatric services. We have separate federal reporting requirements. We have kept budgets as separate as possible, so when you hear that, I just want you to reflect back that, oh, these were the merger of two divisions, and that might help you better follow along. Director, before we go any further, Representative Steinhoff, you have a question, an inquiry? Yes, sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. This introduction's been really helpful, and I had a question I wasn't sure when to ask, but then when you talked about your, I think you called them the three buckets, I think the forensic bucket is what you called it, and what I'm curious about. I guess my first question is, how many psychiatric hospitals do we have in the state? We have five adult forensic psychiatric hospitals, and one youth that is not forensic. It's for kids who are needing that level of care, but they're not necessarily involved in juvenile justice. Okay, so if I think about the geography of Missouri, and if there's five places that, you mentioned law enforcement, which I think is probably the person, the group that's called the most, no matter where the situation started, somebody's demonstrating psychiatric concerns, and to try to avoid there being justice involved, maybe they're brought someplace to get care. And if the person is refusing care, which they can, and they leave that facility, and I can just picture, if you're in a mental crisis state, and you just want out. I want out, I want out, I want out. So they walk out of a hospital door, and then they're in this community that they don't know. So they may have been a homeless, involved individual to begin with, or maybe not. But I'm wondering, do you feel like the hospitals have the right resources to really try to get that person back to a familiar place? Or is that an area where you're needing more help? So I wanna be really clear that our hospitals, our adult institutions, are very specifically forensic. And the court orders them to come to us, and they stay with us. They don't walk out of our hospitals. So I can't speak to the private hospitals who do accept individuals with mental health issues, or are involuntary committed to those hospitals for shorter periods of time for evaluation. What I can tell you is that our statewide system, which I'm very proud of, and I'll just say at this moment, there are many programs for which we are nationally recognized as leaders. Our system is comprehensive in that there are diversion, crisis intervention, treatment, all of those connections in all communities. And so we do try to, and I don't know who asked it earlier, but SIM mapping, have you all heard of that process? Just in the last year and a half, two years, all counties came together with law enforcement, behavioral health resources, all the sort of stakeholders that you can think of to come together and connect some dots, figure out where the gaps are, which has been really instructive. But the department as a whole has been partnering with law enforcement and the Department of Corrections over many, many years, and we've developed great relationships. We've actually developed specific programs, which I'll talk about soon, that directly assist law enforcement when they are dealing with individuals for whom they are not the most appropriate intervention. So I didn't fully answer your question. And as you pointed out earlier, we hear from lots of constituents, and so I'm relaying information that may or may not be correct, but I feel like in the community I'm from, that is perceived as part of the problem, is that we have some pretty dangerous people on our streets that possibly came to our community that way, and that they left what I've been told, a hospital, refusing psychiatric care, and now they're in a community where they don't know anyone, which I am sure is probably just going to continue to make that worse. So if any part of that is true, and if it's something that we need to be able to support our hospitals better, or to have even community support there, money there, I just wanna help with that if I can. I think that's a great question, and I do believe that that's why it's important that our community providers do develop relationships with hospitals and law enforcement. I'm gonna guess in that situation if an individual leaves a private hospital, again, not my hospital, private hospital, or there was some sort of event, law enforcement would be contacted. Again, we've done extensive work over the years to develop relationships with law enforcement, so they know to either contact 988, contact a community behavioral health liaison, make some other connection with the community behavioral health provider to see can you all help in this crisis situation? Is there some way we can help stabilize them and keep them out of the jail setting? That's sort of the system we've been building and attempting to reinforce over time. But if it's a really small community that may not have those kind of resources, is it likely that they might go to the next big area that does? Oh, I'm not gonna say that's not possible. You know, we have statewide coverage, and all services should be available in all counties, but we do have realistic geographical issues such that an individual may move faster than the system is able to intervene with them. You just hope by the next time or the next town that we are better able to catch up with them. Right, and please don't misunderstand. I know you all are doing the best you can do and doing great work. I just wanna make sure that we're giving the resources out there, not just looking at the beds,talked about earlier, but as you stated, preventing people from becoming justice involved in getting the best care that they can. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So if we're good with that, we'll go ahead and start on page 152 for the Substance Use Disorder Administration. As we've said, the division is responsible for assuring that State of Missouri has prevention, early intervention, crisis, diversion, treatment, and recovery support services for individuals who have mental illnesses and or those with substance use disorders. We talked about, again, we support individuals primarily in the community, we support individuals primarily in the inpatient settings, and then we have the folks who are in between. But the administration of both for SUD and mental health means that our staff oversee programs by establishing regulations, we develop policies and procedures, we conduct regulatory oversight through monitoring activities like billing reviews and certification, we provide a lot of technical assistance to our providers, we are, again, pretty good in this state at data analytics, and our admin applies appropriate fiscal procedures to ensure financial accountability. So for SUD admin, the governor's recommended core budget is just under $4 million. On page 159 is the same thing just for mental health. Again, we used to have two divisions, now we have one. With the Mental Health Administration, our central office, some staff do also support the hospital system. I have a role in supporting the hospital system. So we have individuals who provide direction and oversight, we do everything we can to promote consistencies and efficiencies within our hospital system and enhance their operations. On page 165 is the core for substance use disorder prevention and education services. Substance use prevention efforts are focused, again, on preventing or delaying, because sometimes that's the reality, right? Prevent or delay the onset of substance use or substance misuse. There are interventions available for individuals, peers, families, schools, including colleges and community, and that is based on technical assistance that comes through more than 160 volunteer coalitions. The governor's recommended core budget is just over $19 million. On page 171 are the opioid community grants. Again, these funds are from the Opioid Addiction Treatment and Recovery Fund. Sometimes I'm going to mess up and I'm going to say opioid settlement funds. Those two mean the same thing. It's just we got too used to using a shorter term. So this funding supports opioid-focused initiatives that include community grants for prevention services, recovery support services, as well as collaborations between substance use disorder treatment providers and primary care facilities. When I say primary care facilities, I am primarily talking about federally qualified health centers. You're going to hear that term come up again, FQHC, and those are safety net primary care medical services providers. On page 181 is for Heartland Center. Funding was a... You have a question on opioid, Representative Murray? Yeah. Okay, we're gonna come right back to you after adjournment. And so we will recess to go up to the floor and we'll come back to Representative Murray on the opioid community grants on 171. Look for an announcement. We'll come back, you know, relatively quickly, presumably, from the floor. And I'm not sure when that's going to be. So we'll all just stay tuned and until that point in time we'll stand in recess. Thank you.