our vendor teams to focus on the things that actually do need some pretty good scrutiny. I like what you're saying, and I appreciate that. So you keep going back to kind of monitor to make sure that you're not being taken advantage of. We do. I'd really like to talk to you kind of about how you're working that, because I want to try to relate it to the real world, if you will. So I appreciate that. Be happy to do that. Thank you. OK, I'm on page 1302. This is our NDI for our MMIS Project Management Office. We are in the process of some fairly significant overhauls of our existing systems, thanks to the support that you all have offered. And this supports vendor personnel to help us manage these projects. We are going to be taking on some of the most significant modernization of our MMIS systems that we've had in the state's history, namely our pharmacy system and then eventually our core claims processing system. So this is vendor support to stand up a project management office. The request is $3 million of all funds. Next NDI is on 1306. This is for enhancements to our MMIS system. Pretty good description of what those needs are on 1307. $15 million all funds. Page 1310, the MMIS interoperability rule. The interoperability rule is a federal requirement that our data and our systems be interoperable. That is going to take some additional configuration and work. Fortunately, the requirement does come with a 90-10 match rate on the fund. So $400,000 of GR, $4 million of all funds. Page 1315, this is an NDI for a security risk assessment. About every three years, we like to do a comprehensive third-party security risk assessment of our Medicaid systems. That is because we have a lot of protected health information and sensitive data. $9 million is the request. And I think the last time we did it was exactly three years ago. OK. Happy to answer any questions about the cores that are in the next several pages, because they are some significant pieces of our budget. But our next NDI is all the way on 1401. And Mr. Chairman, this will be your favorite NDI of the day, because we have zeroed it out in GovRec, and we no longer need any funding there. Page 1405, this is an NDI for ABA services that are offered now in our CCBHOs. That was thanks to a change the General Assembly added last year that made ABA therapy available in our CCBHOs. $5 million is the total request here. Page 1415 is the NDI for a rate increase for our PACE program. PACE is Program for All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly. It's a program we're really excited about. It has not had quite the uptake that we had hoped by this point, but it is a program that's growing now with nearly 100 Missourians in the program at three different sites, Springfield, Kansas City, and St. Louis. We pay these providers based on what we call an AWOP rate, or the amount that otherwise would have been paid. So as we do that annual analysis, we update the rate, and this is the NDI associated with that annual update. Mr. Chair. Hi, Mr. Speaker. Thank you for being here. Good morning, Senator. On the reimbursement that you're doing, is that based on our reimbursement rate, or I know we've had some conversations about bringing our Medicaid reimbursements to the same rate as Medicare. So how does that work? In the PACE program, what we look at to set that rate is we look at the amount that we otherwise would have paid. So we pay this on a per member basis, so we give that facility all of the money associated with what we think that care would have cost in a given month. So this rate we're talking about here is tied to our existing Medicaid rates. We have engaged in a process over the last several years, and thanks to the General Assembly's help, to realign our provider rates to some percentage of Medicare. And so in the case of our outpatient hospital services, it's a Medicare-based fee schedule. It pays about the same rate, a little bit less than what Medicare would pay. And our provider rates, depending on the type, could range from 100% of Medicare for some services to about 75% of Medicare for most. Thank you. Moving on to page 1433, this is the NDI for our premium increase for Medicare premiums that we actually pay for participants. It's a great deal for the state to actually buy those premiums when appropriate. So as those premiums go up every year, our cost to pay them goes up. Next, and I believe this is the final in book seven, this is the NDI for our nursing facility value-based payment rebase. As we have raised our nursing facility rates, we now have a value-based component. This NDI will support keeping that value-based payment at the same percentage level. So as the regular base rates have gone up, we need to raise the amount of dollars that we're putting in the BBP to make sure that that incentive doesn't get watered down relative to the rates. And that is all for book seven. Thank you. Moving on to page 1484, this is an NDI for hospice rate increase. Hospice rate increase rates are set pursuant to one of four predetermined levels. And per federal rules, have to be adjusted. The rate increase here is $395,000, or a 2.5% increase. Next, on page 1495, this is our non-emergency medical transportation program. Similar to our managed care program, we pay this contract on a per member per month basis and have to set the rates in an actuarially sound manner. Total request here is $3 million of all funds. That equates to a 5.5% rate increase. Next is our managed care GMT. CORE is not one we're going to cover. We have, next on 1523, this is the GR pickup for managed care for one-time expenditure last year. As the budget was finalized last year, $336 million of general revenue of managed care funds were coded as one-time. Turns out we do need them again this year. So this is the GR pickup for those funds. Next, on page 1596, this is an NDI for our primary care health home program. This is a program that the state has been really proud of for a long time. We continue to be really proud of it. This allows an expansion of the care teams to include community health workers as a part of those care teams. We have seen pretty dramatic results from primary care health homes in terms of reducing unnecessary ER visits, better care management, better medication compliance. This is actually the first step in what we hope are a couple of steps in sort of making the primary care, taking the lessons we've learned from the primary care health home over the last 15 years and building upon it to make the program even more successful than it already is today. $10 million of all funds. Next, on 1651, this is an NDI for MoMAPs, specifically tied to the AEG population. We identified very, very, very late in the budget process last year that we probably didn't have enough authority. MoMAPs is a program that allows us to make supplemental physician's payments, principally to University Health in Kansas City and to the University of Missouri in Columbia. This is the dollars associated with the adult expansion group portion of that program. $32 million, all funds, no general revenue in this request. And Mr. Chairman, unless you just want me to cover the non-count funds and the rest of the stuff in the book, that is all the NDIs for book seven and eight. I don't think so. Any other questions for the director before we cut him loose? And Todd, I may have one quick question for you. And it's a little bit of a chicken and egg situation, but we've got, obviously, a new administration in DC, and there's a lot of talk about changes and reforms and cuts. And conversation has been, I think, percolating around Congress a little bit about changing the 90-10 match rate for those states who had not expanded Medicaid to the 138% poverty level, which, obviously, we fit into that. We've got a Supreme Court decision that says those folks are going to receive care and we're going to pay the bill. I mean, this goes back years and years, the conversation of if we expand to this population, yeah, the match rate's 90-10 right now. It's, I think, off the top of my head, it's a couple billion dollars worth of a population to the tune of, I think, each percentage decrease under the 90% match that we're getting from the feds right now would be somewhere between $25 and $30 million that the state is on the hook to pick up. I mean, are you guys, are you or is your office tracking what's going on in DC, what the conversation is, and what that may look like? Because just as the folks who are tasked with writing this budget, the possibility that maybe that match rate came down to something more similar to our overall Medicaid reimbursement rate, I don't think I'm out of line in saying that that number could be somewhere close to $750 million that the state could be on the hook for in making up the reimbursement difference to that expanded population.I'm not leaving. I am now, but I'm not leaving. Therefore, I am going to see your case through to the end. And they appreciated that because they had seen attorneys come and go over the course of their case. And many of those people are confined. So it's not just the cost to the public defender system, but it's also the cost to the county of those cases dragging out while we try to get attorneys to be able to handle them. Thank you. You mentioned a, I think it was $700 for contracting, but is that an average or whatever the number was? Because I can't imagine, like it can't be the same fee schedule for misdemeanors and felonies, and there's gotta be some variation. We have a fee schedule, Chair. It's $10,000 for a homicide. It's $375 for a misdemeanor. A low-level felony is $750. A high-level felony is $1,500. A case involving sex allegations, I believe, is $2,500. But there is a fee schedule that is set by the commission that is included in our Code of State Regulations. Have you ever looked at by, not criminal offense, but by maybe classification, as in maybe for certain high-level felonies or all felonies, it would be more, and it could be that it's just more efficient and cost-effective to have state attorneys across the board, but have you ever looked at, for instance, if misdemeanors, for whatever reason, mathed out that it was not as cost-effective? You know, have you ever looked at it by classification, as in if that were the case, then maybe it's like, well, let's try to contract out all our misdemeanors or focus on contracting out those because there's a cost-benefit there versus certain others. Yeah, I was trying to understand your question at first, but yes, so DAC-BAC, you'll remember, during the time when we had a wait list. During that time, we did use monies to contract out all of the misdemeanors in certain areas to take those off the hands of the attorneys who were still in there to lower their caseloads. What we find with the attorneys that we contract with is that generally, we only contract low-level felonies and below. To be able to handle the more serious felonies or the homicides, you have to have certain skill level and not all of our contract counsel are at that level. So when we bring someone on as a contract counsel, we do a review of their experience and what type of case they can handle. Right now, it is almost exclusively CD and E felonies and misdemeanors that we contract out. But back to, let's just say misdemeanors and felonies, have you looked at the breakdown on, like it's still more cost-effective in what you've looked at for misdemeanors, for states that have to do it? Yeah, I wish it was that simple. Typically, if we are representing a person on a misdemeanor, they may also have an associated felony or an associated probation violation case. Representative Mayhew, you have a question on this? You may proceed. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. So what I think I'm hearing you say is that we're losing a considerable amount of efficiency from we hire somebody, they work for us for a little while, they end up going somewhere else to work in a short period of time. We have a retraining expense because of that. And with the next person coming in, we, and so that typically tends to indicate that we have attorneys with less experience coming in to the public defender's office. And that's probably likely not going to change in the foreseeable future. We're not gonna be seeing folks come to us that with 10, 15 years experience in criminal law, right? And so once you calculate all that in there, and including the lost time from the stack up of additional cases being put on someone else, and all the continuances and everything associated with that, wouldn't it be more efficient, even though you're paying a higher cost per case, after you add all of that stuff in there, wouldn't it be more efficient to contract more out to those folks that regularly contract with you and on those cases you're talking about? Because you end up with a higher experienced attorney, right, working those cases. So wouldn't that be more efficient, even though the cost per case might go up slightly on the attorney's fees? Our contract attorneys are not necessarily more experienced. They are often also attorneys who are right out of school starting a practice. Some of them are, but not all of the contract attorneys are. But you don't really have a stable full of contract attorneys out there that regularly contract with you? We do, we do. And some of them have experience, but not all of them. The bigger issue is the desert of attorneys in many areas of our state. For instance, down our Rawa office covers Texas County. We wanted to contract cases out there. We found one attorney who was willing to come into Texas County. Well, we can't give her every single case that comes through because she would not be able to provide effective assistance of counsel. So we had to do, we handled some, we contracted out some. So we can't just give them an ever-ending list of cases. They still have to have a reasonable caseload, even if they are contract attorneys. No, but I could envision a system where you would have a set and call attorney A, and then attorney A is too busy, attorney B, et cetera, that would be on your, right? I'm not suggesting I know anything about how you do your job. What I'm saying is, isn't there some efficiency we can gain from expanding that contracting, the number that we're contracting from the 12,000 to 20,000 cases that were? We've expanded it. We were at 3,000 in 2019. We're at 12,000 now. We've expanded it to the top level of what our contract attorneys say they will take. They call us and say, no more cases. I'm at my top. So this is about, because a lot of budget items are interrelated. And so we have a significant cost in jail per diem. And so I think I've got, it kind of figured out where a lot of that is at. But this was a question that I was wanting to ask you anyway, but is there a way, do you have a handle on the number of extended stays in our jails as a result of counsel having to get continuances because you had an attorney who left your spot that got moved to another attorney. They already had a large caseload. And so the new attorney had to ask for continuance, which put that person that much farther from going to trial. Is that, do you understand what I'm getting at there? I think I do. And so is there even like a rough number that you might, and not now, obviously, but if you could work on that number somehow, is there an easy way to get to that, even just if it was a ballpark number? I just wanna make sure I understand your question. So what we can tell you is the number of attorneys who leave. We can tell you the average number of cases that they leave behind. And then we can multiply that within the course of a year and say, you know, we have 80 attorneys leave in a year and they leave 100 cases behind. That's 8,000 cases that we have to reassign. Which results in an average continuance of 30 days, 90 days, whatever. I don't know that we could calculate that. It depends upon the jurisdiction. A jurisdiction like Phelps County moves its cases through quickly and does a good job. A jurisdiction- Hardworking judges over there. They are, and very pleasant. The jurisdiction like St. Louis County, which also has hardworking judges, so I'll make that clear, moves its cases very, very, very slowly. So, you know, it's not a this number of times, this number that easily. It's a problem, though, no question about it. I actually think- Well, it's a problem even in the 25th, because, you know, they have the fourth highest caseload in the state of Missouri. And they're technically a rural judicial district. But, and yes, caseload, there's a lot of things in there, but what, and just have, if you don't mind, if you could have somebody come by and so we can massage those numbers a little bit. I just need a rough number, because it directly affects other lines in the budget. And we're trying to get a handle on that to, hopefully to provide some money in the future for some of these other programs that we'll talk about in a little bit that were lined out that I am also a fan of, so. Okay. So thank you very much. I'll try to get that to you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, thank you, please proceed. I think the next page that we are on is page nine. And I just wanted to point that out that this sort of shows you a breakdown of our E&E expenses and focusing on fiscal year 24, which will not be dissimilar to this year. We spent $11 million on E&E expenses. The largest, I'm sorry, we spent 17 million. The largest thing that we spend on, sort of what we've been talking about, is on professional services. Professional services combines two things, really. Expert witnesses that we hire for our cases, as well as attorneys that we contract cases out to. So if we've contracted a case to an attorney, that line item is coming under professional services. That does not include the other expenses we might be paying them, such as their travel expenses or other things connected to their case. But that is a large part of our budget. I just wanted to make that clear. Going to pay.age 11? I just wanted to point out, every year we do spend our entire budget. Up until last year, we received $5 million in the supplemental at the beginning of May from the Public Defender Reinvestment Fund, and we spent all but $1.4 million of that. But prior to that, we have spent every dollar that we have received. We have typically needed to flex money from our vacancy savings into our E&E expenses because we did not have enough money in there. We had not had an increase in E&E in years. We probably will not be flexing as much this year, and with the Public Defender Reinvestment Fund, we'll have some of those monies available to cover those E&E expenses that we had to flex for last year. So you may see a difference in our budget this year that has not previously been there. Our next NDI is on page 12, and this is a request for 48 new FTE as mitigation specialists to work in our holistic defense services program to provide services to our clients and connect them to the community resources that they need to be able to not return as our clients a second time. I just want to make . . . when we created this budget, it was before we started receiving significant amounts of Public Defender Reinvestment Funds. So at the time that we created it, there was not enough money in the Public Defender Reinvestment Fund to cover these 48 FTE. In the first year, we received $1.2 million. That's when we created this budget request. Subsequent to that, we received $5 million in the supplemental budget. This year, we received $9 million in our budget, and then there is $11 million from the Public Defender Reinvestment Fund in this year's budget, in your supplemental budget. Next year, we are starting at $16 million in the Public Defender Reinvestment Fund. So while it's still a new fund, and we can't say this is definite these monies will come through at this rate, it has shown pretty consistently that it's going to stay at that level or perhaps increase slightly. All of the monies we are receiving in this fund, we are receiving them as E&E money. What we would like to do is transition that to personal service money. If we could transition $4 million to personal service money, we could fund both salary and benefits for 45 FTE as mitigation specialists. I just want to make certain that makes sense before I go on. Now I'm going to explain what Holistic Defense Services is. Does that make sense? Do you want to go ahead, Representative Mahe, with the question now or let her finish the explanation? No, I'll go ahead and finish that explanation. All right, please finish the description there. So last time we were here, we provided you, and I don't know if you all have this sheet, if you put it in your books or not, but we provided you with a sheet that discusses Holistic Defense Services. If you didn't bring it back, I brought extra today and am happy to provide you with one. But if you actually look in the budget book, in my letter to Governor Parson that was written back in the very beginning, it explains what Holistic Defense Services does. So we started this program in 2022, and I'll tell you where it came from. As a lifelong public defender, what I would see as a new attorney was I would represent a client, we would have a good resolution of that case, I would be very happy with that resolution, the client would be happy with the resolution, and one to two years later that client would be back. And it felt as though we were failures. And I will tell you, it's one of the factors that drives our attorneys out of the system, the inability to make real change in their clients' lives. And what I did when I started the St. Louis City office and ran that office was I transitioned an attorney spot to an attorney social worker spot so that they could provide for our clients connection to the community services that would change their lives. 75 to 80 percent of our clients either suffer from substance use disorder or have a mental health disorder. And they do not have easy access to the services that they need. We presented to the substance use task force twice this last year on our holistic defense services program, explaining the importance of connecting our clients to what they need so that they don't return as clients. Again, Representative Black, who is the chair of that committee, said when we came the second time, the public defender system not only is taking care of these clients with substance use disorder, they have an easy access to them because they come to them as their clients and we have a special confidential relationship with them. So that if they have a need and they want some assistance, they can come to us and request that with it being confidential and not being worried about whether or not they will be punished as a result of sharing the information. But we realize that if we are going to truly provide effective representation for our clients, which is our constitutional obligation, that part of that legal representation is managing them so that they have the ability to be released from jail pretrial, giving them the ability to go back to their community, back to their jobs, back to their families, saving the county's money from not having to house them pretrial. What judges say to us on a regular basis, what's the housing plan? What's the plan for substance use treatment while they're in the community? What's the plan for mental health treatment? Our attorneys do not have the skill set to arrange for those services. Social workers or mitigation specialists do. And so through the AmeriCorps program, we started a pilot program where we brought in AmeriCorps volunteers who worked with our clients. And what we found was that in the seven offices that were evaluated through a grant from the Missouri Foundation for Health, that there was an increase in people returning safely to their community, there were better outcomes for the clients, and the clients received services that they need. We would like to increase that program and have someone available in each of our 33 trial offices to serve the clients who are represented by those offices. Initially, we requested for the funds from general revenue. We are now requesting the funds be taken from the public defender reinvestment fund. There would be a need to authorize 45 FTE to go along with this, but the funds are already in our budget, and it would be paid for both salary and benefits from that area. Representative Mayhew, you may proceed with an inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So you answered a lot of the questions in there. Thank you very much for that. So a couple of things on this. The 45 FTE is, in my book, it says 45. You had mentioned 48. Did I say 48 by mistake? Yeah. For some reason, that number is stuck in my head, but it's 45. Yeah, I was hoping it hadn't grown three since this book was printed. So as a new program that you have sort of, sounds to me like you might have already delved into a little bit, perhaps a pilot kind of a thing. So I know you just said it's a success, but do you have any kind of metrics on that? Is there? Yes. So the Wellbeing Initiatives did a study funded by the Missouri Foundation for Health. And if you look at your handout, the findings of, and that study is attached to our annual report, which is online. And I'm happy to send that to you. Okay. So I recognize this as a problem. We've got this revolving door, and some of the things that you said in there I've been aware of. And, you know, we, a lot of this is all drug related, right? And so when you chase this thing upstream, you know, you find out we're devoting a lot of resources that we shouldn't have to do. My issue with it is without, do you have enough data right now to say you have an effective pilot to be able to justify taking it statewide? Yes, absolutely. Okay. So that's the first question on that. But these folks, I'm assuming, we ain't hiring social workers to do this, right? Are we hiring lawyers to do this? No, we're hiring social workers. Okay. Well, once again, we're dipping into a pool that's pretty dry. And we heard the other day from, I think it was Department of Mental Health, with their difficulty filling their spots, what we, here's a little bit of difference. The DMH social workers are in forensic institutions dealing with folks who are suffering from serious mental health issues. Our social workers are working with our clients in the community and providing a range of services to them. We have not had difficulty recruiting social workers as AmeriCorps volunteer who receive a minimum salary. So these folks would actually receive a typical social worker salary. Okay. So let's assume we solved that problem right there. Are we going to be comprehensive on the solutions? In other words, will these folks not just look at state programs and things like that? Will they also be looking at the faith-based organizations who have a potentially?force multiplier kind of services. Those are some of our best partners. That's who we have partnered with so far. And the faith-based folks, one of the things that they provide that is fantastic is transportation. We have ministers who pick our clients up from the jail and will take them to a substance use program. And check on them on a regular basis to make sure they paid their electric bill and all those kind of things. Which is some of the stumbling blocks because then those folks get frustrated and they end up going back into their old habits. And so I like the direction we're going here because of the potential that it has. But from my standpoint, in order for me to support it, I don't wanna just add 45 more state employees and then have an efficiency ratio of 0.05 or something crazy like that. So if you could get me some hard numbers and then the committee on how effective we've been with what we know right now, then I would probably be willing to support that change. And I can tell you just on our first, we're still in the midst of a longer range study. Our first initial study found that in the seven offices that were studied, if you look at the amount of time that folks did not have to sit pretrial incarcerated and the amount of time because they received services that they were not going to be incarcerated, there was a $16 million daily savings between jail and Department of Corrections time. You multiply that times our 33 offices, you're looking at $60 million for the state. It's not gonna happen overnight. Right. No, and too often we want instant gratification, right? But was any of this done in those counties where we were doing the pilot on the pretrial assessment? I don't, I'm trying to think. It was your county. It was down in the 25th is one of the ones that we studied. And we don't have any pretrial assessment there. No, you don't have pretrial. We did study St. Louis City. They have a pretrial program, but it's not the same as the state's pretrial program. Springfield, which also has a pretrial program. Three, I'm trying to think of the other ones. I believe Hannibal. So where I'm kind of going with that is, and I don't know that this would work, but is that something where we could combine those efforts with the pretrial with this post-release thing so that we could kind of double dip on the caseworkers kind of a thing? We collaborate with the pretrial offices in every jurisdiction where they exist. And our mitigation specialists collaborate with them. The difference and the successful part of our program is because we have an attorney-client confidential relationship that extends to our mitigation specialists. So there is information we may receive in that that helps them get services that they may not give us permission to share with pretrial. And I'll just give you an example so it makes sense. Client who is facing drug issues and has on a regular basis been before the court on drug issues and has never disclosed why. Our mitigation specialist gets in there and does an evaluation and establishes a relationship with the person that is confidential. And the person discloses to them, here's how I got started on drugs. I was force-fed drugs as a child by my abuser. And I never got off the drugs afterwards. He wasn't going to say that to a pretrial person that he didn't know. He wasn't gonna say that in court to the judge. But by gathering that information, we could then connect him to a program that it could help him deal with those issues. Right, well, and obviously, it's a little bit of a longer conversation. But what I'm trying to get to you is if I can get some program overlap here where we can utilize the resources in a combined effort, then that helps also with supporting it through the budget process. So I'm tentatively a fan. Thank you, thank you. Once I see your numbers. I'll get you over there. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Steinmeier, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good morning. Morning. I appreciate the program that you're trying to initiate here. Thank you. My concern is, I represent a district in Jackson County. My wife and I visited a center that does just what you're talking about. They have an in-house facility and primarily the bulk of their clients are coming straight from jail or prison. So they're felons and they have addiction issues. And they're trying to bring a program that helps them work through that system. They're very private with their clients. So they represent them well. And they know that they have legal issues that they have to contend with. And I asked what their success rate was in this program and they said it's about 30%. And it's a 12-month program. So they take them through the issues of addiction and then begin to figure out how to give them some workforce development, resumes, interview skills, and then they come back in and out of the program. And when I asked how many centers are like this in our state they said that they know of three. And it's a program that I think is absolutely beneficial to the community, to the people they serve, to the community that they serve in. My, and of course they have more clients than they have bed space and funds. And this is where I'm challenged. I feel like we do things at the state that are kind of redundant. We have programs in place that are doing good things and they've been there for decades. And then we want to pull resources and try to enhance or do more over here while the groundwork, your ground soldiers are struggling financially. They're having a hard time meeting their financial needs. So my question is, and it's to you in part and then to the committee is, you know, when we have these programs and I think it would benefit, do you have anything in Jackson County? We have a mitigation specialist working in Jackson County through AmeriCorps now, yes. Okay, so I know that they do work with attorneys that didn't tell us who, I mean, like I said, there were things they would share with us and then there were for privacy issues for their clients they would not. And I appreciate that, but they're wanting to expand as their client base is expanding. I love this, but at the same time, we're looking at putting more money into a social work program with, and I don't even know what the qualifications are gonna be for your social workers. Are they specialized in addiction? I mean, you know, what are you looking for when you're hiring social workers to work in your legal system? Those who have an understanding of both the community services, the social work skills and the legal system. And I will tell you, Representative, we don't provide the services. Our mitigation specialists connect our clients to the services. What happens is if you're sitting in a jail cell, there's a fabulous program like that that's available. You can't apply for it from the jail cell. So we will get the application, go into the jail, help them complete it, take it back to the program, do the work to get them the Medicaid funding or whatever they need to be able to go in. We have funding also to help provide for the initial entry fee, which they may not have. And that's wonderful, but if we're funding this program and we're underfunding this program, we're not gonna have any place to direct them to if we can't bring the funding to the people that are doing it every day. I will say, the money's already here. We're not asking for additional monies. The money is in our budget already. We're just asking for a reallocation of where the money is and spending authority to spend it. So we are not asking you for additional funding. I understand that. I'm just bringing this more as an awareness of when we get into the groundwork, the foot soldiers in our districts that are trying to make a difference. And there's three programs across the state that are actually there and available to direct them to. But if they go away, who are you gonna direct them to? That's the bigger issue. I just don't want us to be doing redundant things with the dollars we have, because it doesn't make sense. If you don't start at A, but we're gonna fund C, and you don't have A and B funded, C doesn't mean much. So I appreciate the program, I really do. I just want to, Representative Mayhew, he was asking for some data. I asked for the same thing from this program, and their success rate's about 30%. And they're dealing with the very people that you're discussing. So I would love to see more funding directed towards these programs to work alongside of what you're trying to accomplish too. And I hope you would champion that as well. Absolutely, I think when we talked to the Substance Use Task Force, everyone identified that the lack of resources in the communities is the number one problem, which is one of the reasons that we collaborate with the faith-based organizations so often, because that's where.We've put in three hundred million dollars in the last three years, a hundred million dollars of WAC, and this is not any new money. No, this is not new money, thank you. So everybody knows. I'll answer the part of how much of it has actually been spent when I'm there. Sorry. Out of the total, how much has been spent? So year one is completely expended and paid. A hundred million is completely expended? No. So in House Bill, if you don't mind, House Bill 17 is the projects that were awarded in fiscal year 24 that we're finishing out paying. We have about 6.7 million left on that, and we have a handful of projects that will be completed in May or June this year, because we realized savings, and so we got to let a few extra projects, and so they're just running a little late. This hundred million, we're hoping that in March, all of the projects will be awarded. Again, we recognize some savings, so all the projects will be awarded, but I don't believe any money has actually been expended on these projects because it's been one project.The combination on 24 of spending authority and on page 20 page 30 of What we bring over every year so we have one dollar amount of what comes in another dollar amount of what we can spend and Then on page 35 is our federal and other funds category Up to a few years ago our federal and other funds so our ability to obtain grants was $125,000 which you all know that having a grant like cap of $125,000 doesn't get you anything. So it was increased by the legislature to 625,000 I asked for it to be increased to 1 million 250,000 a couple years ago which you did and now we're finally getting grants and what we've been told is once you get a grant You'll get grants. You can't get grants until you get grants, but once you get grants, you'll get grants So we are asking that this be increased again On our new decision item on page 40 by another 1 million $250,000 in the amount that we can take in and then on top of that Some of the grants that we have looked at have said you have to have somebody In in the grant that they will pay for who is managing the grant So we asked for the salary for a grant manager and an FTE to go along with that The salary and the benefits would be paid out of the grant monies not out of general revenue And I think That is everything in our budget. I Appreciate your attention. And if anybody does need any of these sheets We will hang around a little bit so that you can pick those up if you lost yours Thank you for your testimony Representative Martin, please proceed. Yeah, just one follow-up question Just for my own information from what you said previously in our discussion with mr. With representative Riggs and others. So from my understanding so if a client of yours If they are trying to ask this the correct way if they are if they are involved in services Getting them help they then can avoid prison times I know you talked about the amount of time that they're in prison and if we can avoid that I think like 19 million and Savings of the county so describe that process someone that's a client of yours. They've obviously violated the law and Then describe that to me how that works. Yes, sir There's two places where I think the state can save money. One. Is it the upfront? Many of our clients when they are charged not convicted, but simply charged they're held in jail and That we have a rule on how they are to be released on bond But a lot of times the court is asking for them to have a GPS monitor Participate in this program do this whatever and our clients don't have the wherewithal to do it So if we get involved we can go to the court and say here's what we've set up and the court will release the person That saves the county money of the jail time, but saves the state the money of the reimbursement, right? At the at the other end if the client is convicted but either through a plea of guilty or a trial then the judge also will have to make the decision of what is going to be the sentence as a result and the judge has an option almost always of incarceration or probation and A judge is typically not going to put somebody on probation if they don't feel like they've got Something in the community to keep them in a good place so we can put in the services to Assure the judge that this person will have support in the community, right? And currently you're using AmeriCorps, which is that's a federal program. Is that correct? It's a state program through the federal government or so. It's a Missouri AmeriCorps is what we're using Yes, which is a great if you don't know about it It's a fabulous program and how many of the different districts are is that being utilized in so we we're trying to cover everybody But I think this year we have eight AmeriCorps volunteers Are there any other questions for members of the committee? Okay, seeing none, thank you all for going through this process as a reminder we have a Hearing tomorrow at 815 for the supplemental bill that is House Bill 14 and we also have House Bill 70 from Representative Taylor that will be presented as well If you would like to make amendments those are due by noon today. And those are amendments to House Bill 14 other than that Yeah, that concludes the hearing here in the Budget Committee and we do stand adjourned Alex will you gavel that for me? There you go. Thank you