We have a motion for the Budget committee will come to today's committee will come to Murray present Owen Proud II rigs sharp Steinhauf Steinmeier Taylor Dell Taylor Tim Vernetti Voss here Warwick here Young All right we have 19 present being established welcome everyone this morning thanks for being with us and it's house bill 12 day of course in uh house budget so we've got the governor's office of course the general assembly as well I think we'll finish with that today and we've got the the judiciary and the public defender up as well today we'll start and begin with the governor's office I see we have several members of the governor's staff with us if you'd like to come forward and uh please uh everyone today of course need to introduce yourself for the record provide us a committee with a witness form Mr. Gresham thanks for being with us this morning if you have any opening comments feel free to make those and at your discretion you may begin in the budget book for the office of the governor for the fiscal year 2026 budget request well thank you Mr. Chairman and members of the committee I appreciate you allowing me to be here this morning I know that you guys do a tremendous amount of work and not just on this bill but on all of them and so certainly the governor from his time in the legislature in his time sitting before you from time to time appreciates the work that you do I mean that sincerely I know it's not an easy task you fight food poisoning and things like that in amongst your members in order to get things done and so I appreciate that governor keo is really excited to get to work on behalf of Missourians in cooperation with both houses of the legislature including including the house and I'm I appreciate the opportunity to present the governor's office budget this morning so with that I'll go right into it first page represents a governor's pay plan we will we'll implement this as intended in accordance with the wishes of the general assembly if you flip to the governor's office tab our current staffing is 29 people oh I'm sorry thank you do I need to rehash anything are we good okay our current staffing is 29 people there is a potential I think as we continue to get into the groove on this that that might grow certainly a little bit we don't know we're still taking a look at that kind of assessing the needs based upon how things go as we get into this our structure is a little bit different than maybe you've seen in the past that's not an indictment on any in previous administration just comes to familiarity that that I have we we built an office that's a little bit more policy heavy instead of maybe just having one person that's in charge of all policy we've got several policy advisors that I intend to lean on and that certainly the governor will intend to lean on rather than just one policy person so that's kind of manifested in there and in the in the office organization that we have again working through page six seven eight that just lays out kind of our our current status mansion operating expenses they're actually six paid positions that come from the governor's office core and or the mansion core we have one of those vacant right now I think in talking with Hana and with OA you you this committee should expect to see kind of a cleanup in the way that that's listed within the budget book next year the previous administration made some moves to ensure that all the of the mansion staff everything that comes everything that goes through the mansion is within the governor's office budget and I agree with that that's where it should be but we'll we'll tighten this up and and in the coming years so that the coding is right and so that that's actually improperly represented within the budget book again six positions paid out of the the governor's office core and the mansion core one of those is vacant representative Prouty you have an inquiry on this you may proceed yes sir thank you Mr. Chair just for the edification of the public I know some people uh I received a text message from a newer member asking about the three hundred and fifteen thousand and some change this isn't just for them to live there it also includes things like the touring the hosting um and other events like cultural events state-based events that go through the governor's office are also covered by this right uh this is yes is the answer to that question now I will tell you if there's entities from the outside that that utilize the mansion I think that there are some expenses recouped from that for for those costs but yes ma'am thank you all right um no further questions we'll jump down to the national guard emergency this core item exists to allow the governor to activate the guard during state emergencies if you look on page 18 24 actually is actuals showed six million and one dollars that was a little bit different and I want to make sure that the committee understands that this was in response to operation lone star previous administration I think rightly made the decision that that need to be put in a supplemental and so that was that's the way that that was done again this just gives uh the governor as the commander chief of the guard the flexibility to be able to activate the guard in the event that that is needed that's what this represents special audits tab I'm grateful for the flexibility that uh that that this body and and the senate has given us on this I can't tell you that right now we have any intention to utilize this funding but I do appreciate the flexibility and having it in there would ask that it that it be retained ag resiliency transfer this came up last year I think for it's been someone on the committee would be glad to correct me if I'm wrong this just allows unspent money that is in that that previous tab that the national guard emergency to be transferred into a fund to support ag related disasters the impetus for this was obviously some of the drought situations that that we have been facing over recent years the first transfer could potentially occur at the end of fiscal year 26 obviously that's going to depend upon how much or if we need to utilize the guard in any capacity but that is the that is the intent there I appreciate the the forward thinking of the parson administration to to to establish this and I think it's a good thing to do but just as of right now there have been no transfers that fund balance is zero dollars job classification details in the governor's office again I alluded to it earlier our staffing and our organization is a little bit different from previous administrations were more of a of a policy heavy type deal so what again what you see here this was this will this was from a cake that was kind of already baked based upon the previous administration so I would ask that you if you have the org charts that we provided should give you a better readout in terms of how we're structured next year's budget we'll have this coded right and you'll be able to see those positions but the org charts represent that accurately similarly on the on the mansion staff and then the last two tabs again I know that flexibility is is perhaps a a challenge for some members of the committee I am very very appreciative that you give the governor's office excuse me the flexibility in between personal service and E&E I'm thankful for that I would ask that you continue to do that and and I appreciate it so that that takes us through the book I'm glad to answer questions Mr. Chairman or from anybody of the committee if if they're already any inquiries about the office of the governor's fiscal year 2026 budget request this time Mr. Chairman seeing none thank you for being with us today very much appreciate it thank you thank you all that will conclude the fiscal year 2026 budget request from the office of the governor we'll now move to the uh the judiciary and uh um I see the uh chief clerk coming forward and justice thank you for being with us here uh this morning and uh please um make any introductions you would like and if you have any opening comments we'll be happy to take those and you may proceed at your discretion well I am a lawyer so I can't help but make some opening comments there should be a green light that's illuminated that one for some reason needs to be fairly close when you're speaking into it so yeah thank you very much all right continue well let me start over then uh good morning uh chairman Deaton uh chairman uh Foss and members of the committee thank you for having us today to present the judiciary's FY 26 budget request if we've not had the pleasure of meeting before in the past my name is Brent Powell and I have the utmost privilege to serve on the Missouri Supreme Courtand I begin my two-year term as chief justice of the court coinciding with the start of The 2026 fiscal year which explains why you are stuck with me here today rather than a marvelous miss Mary Rhodes Russell Who is our current? Chief justice with me today is the clerk of the Supreme Court Betsy ledger wood Who will be presenting the budget here today and the deputy state court administrator? Rick Morrissey and the budget manager Julie Miller As the incoming chief, I believe it's important to be here today to support our budget request But more importantly also to express my deepest respect and appreciation for the very difficult task before you. I Know you will devote many days and hours to the budget process of the next few weeks and months and on behalf of the entire Court, I want to extend our gratitude for your attention to this and your dedication to this important matter Miss ledger would miss Miller and mr. Morrissey will provide most of the information about our budget request but I'd like to call your attention to a couple of matters and specific requests the judiciary cannot discharge our duties under the law and Maintain public trust and confidence without the support of the thousands of employees who become the very face of justice For so many who walk into our local court courtrooms and courthouses The judiciary budget itself equals less than 2% of the entire statewide general revenue The vast majority of our funding nearly three-fourths pay for the salaries of court personnel Your constituents who live and serve in your local communities throughout the state more than two-fifths of that amount consists consists of salaries set pursuant to the state constitution and state statute Compensation is key to retaining our valued employees and staff and recruiting high-quality workers We sincerely appreciate your support of these vital judicial employees In the past chief justice Russell has spoken to you about our restoration and maintenance efforts with the historic Supreme Court building Working here in our beautiful state capital you understand the value and the unique needs of maintaining historic buildings in The past two budget cycles you have appropriated approximately 3.8 million for restoration work in the historic Supreme Court building renovation specifically for the Supreme Court Library in addition to the Judicial Learning Center Which benefits thousands of inner visitors? Many consisting of school groups across the state who pass through the Supreme Court building every year unfortunately unexpected obstacles have prevented those appropriations from being utilized and intended as intended which miss ledger would can explain in greater detail as Work proceeds on this important undertaking undertaking. We would ask for a continuation of your original appropriation Last year you appropriated slightly more than 1.7 million for the expansion of pretrial services programs these programs are designed to assure that those who present a danger to our communities or Present a flight risk are detained pretrial in our county jails For others these programs improve court appearance rates and divert eligible individuals to substance abuse Behavioral health treatment courts and other resources to ensure conditions of pretrial release are Satisfied in the safety of our communities are preserved pretrial services staff at the office of the state court administrator and pretrial administrators in the participating judicial circuits work together to assess monitor and supervise defendants to assist courts in Determining whether a defendant is a danger to the community or a flight risk and should be detained pretrial and if released to ensure appearance at future court dates and compliance with the other conditions of release your appropriation builds on the success from our initial two pilot sites where we have seen higher rates of pretrial release compliance and Improved recidivism rates the expansion of these programs allows for this public safety success to be enjoyed in other counties and judicial circuits across the state And I can tell you I would love to talk more about enhancing public safety and other substantive matters but I'm constrained by some of our judicial conduct rules and commenting on pending and impending matters that may become before the court and Discussions in this here in these hearings may involve some of these matters so for that reason Betsy ledger would the clerk of the court will be leading the presentation of our budget and responding to your questions and Trust me. I leave you in her very capable hands Again, thank you very much for having me and again for your hard work and death dedication to the task at hand Thank you I'm just thanks for being with us today. And will we be hearing from you or For the state of the judiciary this it'll be judge Russell be judge Russell one more time. It'll be her last time So, okay, very good. Well, we'll look forward to Thank you for joining us this morning and Yes Chieftains crossover on July 1st, so this is her last speech and then he'll take the budget over But it's technically considered his budget since his first day of being chief will coincide with the first day of fiscal 26 I see that I understand now that that makes a good sense Yeah, I kind of have an inquiry really of the whole group as a whole We have I guess for the second year in a row had numerous sir Yes circuit clerks up here you know who are concerned particularly about those in the third and fourth class counties and and the the amount of Income that they're able to receive for the amount of work that they do I mean it's when you talk to them. They're basically on call 24 7 They don't have the staff like a first-class County and what have you and they're struggling and we're struggling on on How to Raise their compensation where we go I'm just curious whether OSCO or the court or somebody because I mean This is the this is the starting point if we if if things break down at the circuit clerk level You know, we've got a real problem all up and down the judiciary Have you all got any thoughts on on on our direction on to go because They're really saying they're having trouble keeping Quality people in these third and fourth class counties at the circuit clerk's office. Yes, so Absolutely. We look into this all of the time. The clerks are in a lot of ways our most forward front-facing staff I mean elected clerks, of course, their salaries are set by statute and then the deputy clerks We pay As we can we use staffing models to try to make sure and we do clerical weighted workloads To make sure that as best we can we have the staff in the areas where we need We pass on all appropriation and appropriation increases to our circuit clerks But much like other places in government. We do struggle to Recruit and maintain staff. We have been working our pay plan. I mean you all have graciously over the years Given them bumps and all employees in the judiciary bumps But no, we are we are very aware and continue to try to manage that with the resources that we have Of course, we didn't help that matters any by by throwing all these expungements on top of them Well, there have been extra duties voted on by the people and by additional laws that have increased their work. There's no doubt about that And so without a compensation we would of course, you know follow any changes that you all Told us to do to give to them I know that they have some through their organization have been working on some structure changes and as long as we had the Appropriations to sustain the changes that they're asking for we don't stand in the way of that Well in any way that you can help us give us guidance or what have you to where we can try and resolve this because I I just hate the thought of Losing a bunch of quality people and and then when people want to you know Seek justice then it's broken down at the beginning with at the circuit clerk's office I'm absolutely I'm on the same page as you representative. I'm happy to visit with you offline about some I would I would enjoy that Thank you very much All right. Good morning. I think do represent proud you had something for you begin the book in earnest. I may proceed. Yes really quickly I'm not sure we were going to skip the tab. I'm sorry skip the tab that says first of all, I'm so sorry Miss letter would good morning. Good morning, and congratulations I Didn't want to have you get into and then have to go back once you guys started On the tab that says were you gonna go over the tab that says? Needed but not requested I was gonna mention it but go ahead with your question So we have on page 10 as a needed but not requested We started this several years ago just as an intro for the other members of the committee who may not know. Excuse me There are things that we do still need but may not rise to the level of a statutory or constitutional mandate or Something that's sort of on fire for us or sometimes these are items we get questions on like how do we create a new? Judgeship a circuit judgeship or an associate circuit judgeship and how is that funded? so we put this list together for those questions that we get frequently or For those items that you may still have interest in or that we still need but in any given particular year We realize you only have so many resources And we try to be very cognizant and not ask for everything And so this is what we call the needed but not requested list and that's pretty much part of my question. You're fantastic But a part of it and we don't have to go deep into it now. I'm happy to talk about itBut just to put it in the atmosphere, I'm really really interested in the attorneys for juvenile officers I know that it's not necessarily statutory, but it is an operating rule And we do want to make sure that you know Children experience adjudication are able to avail themselves of the things that they need to have Even if it's not the full dollar amount We certainly want to you know take steps in that right direction and also as a person who's done this type of work the juvenile caseload management But again, I'm happy to schedule something with you to sort of discuss where we are in the spectrum of need for these things Only because they are children and I would rather get them the most services as they can now before they become, you know Absolutely, and with the the attorney for juvenile officers just to give a little bit of a background several years ago The court had to give some guidance to juvenile officers That were probably do those juvenile officers who were not attorneys were probably Stepping over the line and practicing law without a license. And so the court made clear that These were sort of the lines in the sand of what was practicing law versus what was being a juvenile officer and that each juvenile office needed to have an attorney But that is largely a county expense And so we do ask for it either directly or on this needed but not requested list A lot of our juvenile officers have made their chief juvenile officer be an attorney so that they have attorney coverage But in a perfect world each office would have a separate attorney. And this is what the cost of that would be. Yes Thank you so much. Thank you. Mr. Chairman All right, mr. Chairman, would you like me to proceed? Yes, please continue all right and my I hand coordination with tabs is not always a hundred percent So if I've skipped over something like throw your hand in the air, I didn't mean to I didn't have all my coffee requirements this morning. So on page Page 12 is where we'll start. These are constitutional mandates Judicial salaries are tied to their federal counterparts as a percentage and we are in the citizens for compensation Study much like statewide elected officials and members of the house and Senate are and so these are considered constitutional mandates That we feel we have to pay regardless the federal increase this year for our judicial counterparts Is one point seven percent. So we did request a one point seven percent increase These are for our article our constitutional judges not our commissioners and the governor did recommend that on page 15 17 and 19 be clear for the members of the committee Oh, I'm sorry just to be just because I think this is a fairly unique item That members of the committee see for the new members of the committee because we have and you even I think allude to it previously In testimony, we see it elsewhere very state employees and statutory schedules and you know, the appropriation is still very Necessary obviously in those cases and obviously you have to have appropriation here But as it relates to the NDI specifically because the Citizens Commission and correct me, please if I'm wrong my understanding From time has passed springs forth from the Constitution correct that if there is a available appropriation That in you list here, which I would point the committee to Missouri constitutional mandate box to this request can be categorized as this item has to be paid first it would be a way of stating it and that be since it springs forth from the Constitution and then several years ago Before I began work for the courts that provision of the Constitution was amended by the people to remove The subject to appropriations language And so that's why I say it's a constitutional mandate as far as the words have to mean something and that change had to mean Something so this is something that that we feel we have to pay regardless Even if we don't have just direct appropriation for it But the governor did recommend it for FY 26 as you go on to pages 15 17 and 19 You'll see that we had a four-year period where we were not given Appropriations for this and for those judges it was paid anyways, and this is our gap with the former governor we had a Gentleman's gentleman's ladies agreement that during his governorship if he recommended the increase we would not ask for this four-year gap Which we held to we did ask for it this year Just because it is approximately, you know, three million dollars of money that we have to take from other things I know it's a large ask the governor did not recommend it But I do want to take a minute and just say that if this committee were so inclined to fund any of it It is truly the appellate judges not the Supreme Court not the circuit judges But the appellate courts where this hurts them the hardest They are smaller courts in the Western District. They own their own building and so they have building maintenance that some of the other courts don't have to deal with and funding this gap Is definitely harder for those courts than anybody else So if there was a mind to look at any of that I will tell you that if we bit it off in chunks, they are the first in need Representative Hausman you have an inquiry. Please proceed You Thank You, mr. Chair First of all, I'd like to say thank you so much to Ms. Ledgerwood anytime. I have a question your call me right back and so I really do appreciate that But as we had discussed offline St. Charles County is growing rapidly. And so we are being a neighbor to st Louis City, you know, we kind of compare ourselves in size and st. Louis City, you know is 275 100 population where st. Charles County is growing or 400 plus and we have 16 judges. They have 35 Could you explain just for the record, you know How that happens and how we can maybe if there's possibility of adjusting that in the future Okay, so the history of how that happened is there are two different types of local judges There's a circuit judge and there's an associate circuit judge And their work is different in rural areas. They may do more of a similar type of work Because of need but in the more urban areas sometimes that work is a little more distinct but the Both types of judgeships are a creation of statute So assert there's a statute that creates new associate circuit judgeships based upon population And if you hit a population trigger, I think of a hundred thousand more three years in a row You are qualified for a new associate circuit judgeship a few years ago The General Assembly changed the statute as it relates to circuit judges and it's based upon a judicial weighted workload, which we update Yearly based upon our numbers and it shows the circuits that are in need of a new judge based upon their weighted workload And then subject to appropriations we get that that given to us by the General Assembly, so both are creations of Statute and the power of creating those judgeships are within the General Assembly But historically as I said with circuit workloads It was based upon the number of filings the workloads not necessarily the population and so in a very urban core area or a place where you might have a lot of travelers from other places you might see filings that are a little More than what the population might say that it was and then also I will just point out that historically We had a General Assembly that was in control of the Democrats for many years and that was a democratic stronghold And so when they created new judgeships a lot of times they were created in the city Much like we see new judgeships now are large largely created in places. Sometimes that might be considered more Republican in nature But like but that is once again totally in the purview of the General Assembly as far as funding of those One is driven by population one is supposed to be based upon the word weighted workloads Does that answer your question representative? Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Chairman Please proceed. All right, I will take you to page 21 This is the last of our constitutional items and this is the marijuana initiative We had amendment three several years ago that related to expungement of marijuana convictions in the past. We have asked for both money for contract or overtime workers and then also That has expired since that work should be done but we are still asking for some E&E out of this marijuana fund and that is because there are extra requirements on us for keeping that redaction and expungement information Confidential and secure and so this just helps with some of our redaction software and some of our security Around those files that are meet those redact the expungement portion Represented boss you have an inquiry you may proceed I do. Thank you. Thank you all for being here just on that specifically I know in the current fiscal year. There was 1.5 million dollars appropriated for that software. It was a one-time I'm sorry, it was ongoing and now you're asking for 10% more So did we miss scope when we asked for that last year? No, we didn't business or what? Some of that is the licensing Of that and then the increase goes up every year. I mean we just have been hit with the larger bill So this is a subscription model for it's like a Microsoft security programming around some of that Okay, sorry and then we but what we base that increase on was the consumer price index increase which made that one-time money Not one time but last year's appropriation if you added the CPI to it, it made it a little bit more Which is what we will expect the increase will be Okay, so Claire's mud, huh exactly and I've not had my coffee requirement yet either so please bear with me we'll struggle together so in FY 24, we had $360,000 as a one-time investment in current FY 25 we had 1.5 million dollars ongoing and Then in this year's request there's an ongoing for a hundred and seventy six thousand dollars and So what I think I just heard you say is the hundred and seventy six thousand dollar NDI for ongoing cost is Based on a calculation you did on CPI on top of a contract that's in place today for that course, correct? So that's an assumption that we're thinking it's gonna go up or we've received notice that we're gonna increase our paypayments on that. Okay. Um, my math brain here is telling me that she's had more coffee than both of us apparently. So, well, and I always, I sort of jokingly say there are three types of lawyers in the world, those that like math and those that don't. And you know, but, um, but so that's, we have to project it out two years and that's just usually that travels right along with the CPI and that's what we project it will be based upon increases in the past. So you're assuming that you're going to continue to see CPI increases in that subscription costs and you're just forecasting that asking for that authority. Got it. Okay. Thank you. That completes my inquiry. Thank you. All right. Um, and then if we will go to page 28, um, when we talked about judges that are in the compensation, um, commission report, there are commissioners and other staff who are tied to judicial salaries via statute or policy. There's about 37 folks across the judiciary, namely commissioners, family court commissioners, drug court commissioners, but their salaries are statutory, not constitutional. And so this represents their increase. Um, so for example, a commissioner's salary and statute is based upon an associate circuit judge's salary. So when that associate circuit judge's salary goes up, it pushes the commissioner's salary up, but it's statutory. So it is subject to, um, there's a legal argument, a good one that it's subject to appropriations in that way. So we ask for that funding. We only pass that on if we've received the funding. And so that's what it would cost to cover those individuals. I'm going to jump ahead just a little bit because they're similar to page 51. This is our new decision item for court reporters. A couple of years ago, um, you all passed a statute that gave tenure increases to court reporters. And so this is the amount that would, um, cost us $87,000 to increase the salaries of those court reporters that are going to hit the tenure marks that are in statute for the coming fiscal year. Now to go back to page 23 for other new decision items. Um, during the off session, while you all were not in session, we have two data centers that hold all of the judiciary's data. Um, and as you can kind of imagine the things that are in court records, it's some of the most sensitive information that you can imagine, um, for individuals. We had an electrical event at one of those data centers where we lost all of the equipment in that data center. We are continuing to work with the AG's office and others on, um, kind of discovering what caused that, um, event and if there is fault, who is at fault. But what it did in reality for us is we lost our everyday technical redundancy. And this is the amount of money that we are asking for out of GR to replace that redundancy. Um, one, we're not moving as fast in our IT because we're all coming out of one place. And two, housing all of that information in just one place is actually, um, not very secure way to do things. And so as quickly as we can replace that, we had asked for it in a supplemental. The governor did not make that recommendation, but as quickly as we can get that up and running and have that ongoing redundancy, um, the safer our information is. We were, um, watching the tea leaves, reading the room as best we could and realized that, um, we are not as in a robust budget year as we might have been two or three years ago. And so we are trying to, um, take some of the burden off of you with that. We have asked for roughly three million in GR, um, for that replacement and then have asked for roughly two million in increased spending authority out of the court automation fund. Um, we have, that way we have some skin in this game too. And if we could have that, then we could replace that equipment. Um, but we are trying to meet you all as close to halfway on that as we can. You did there at the end, I think just mentioned that next NDI with 2 million out of the, um, other fund. I did. And just curious, and it was just looking at them, uh, you know, before we got to it here, it appeared to me that this was the same thing, uh, but it is two different NDIs, um, with the two different fund sources. But just to be clear, this is the two NDIs represent the same thing. Yes. It's the same, the same. We're just trying to, um, to not ask at all for GR. Yeah. Two funding sources. Thank you for the clarification. No problem. Um, if you'll move to page 31, this is secure juvenile detention. So secure juvenile detention is an area that, um, it is of an immediate, immediate need for us. We have a few years ago with raise the age, um, we are now holding youth that, um, are potentially or, and quite frankly are committing a higher level of crime because of the change in the certification laws. We are holding them for longer than we ever have before. At the same time, we had changes in DYS with how they handled dual jurisdiction and the mothballing of some of their facilities. And so we are trying to, we are looking at many different things to try to solve this problem. But one of the most immediate things that we can do is increase our bed capacity. And so we requested an increase, um, to add 16 beds in the 13th circuit, which is Boone County and an additional eight beds in the 26 circuit, um, which is the Lake of the Ozarks area. And we have the capacity in those facilities. We just need the staffing. Um, and so that would give us as close to an immediate, you know, help with this problem. As we look at other avenues with how we're going to deal with this ongoing, we had asked for 2.1 million that would have been the increased beds, um, the 29 FTEs, and then would have allowed us to move some of our detention staff to detention level twos. The governor recommended 1.4, which is for the, the staff and the increased beds. It's not for raising the detention level twos. So, but that is what that shows there. We had a couple of other requests in the juvenile realm that I'll just make you aware of that he did not recommend. Um, one was on page 34, juvenile detention contractors, and this was mental health and security contractors that we could bring in to, um, work with the mental health of the youth and help with safety in those areas. Um, but the governor did not recommend that, but if we could get the increased bed capacity, that would at least, um, solve an immediate need. Right now, we have juvenile officers that are calling all around the state, trying to find an empty bed. Sometimes these youths are being housed hours away from their family, their communities, and their lawyers, which makes it difficult for them to, um, work on their case and get the support that they need. Representative Black, you have an inquiry on this. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thanks for being here, Ms. Leger. On this, uh, 34, the, uh, the, uh, staff and the counselors, this is presented as an NDI, uh, that the governor did not approve. Is there a core here that I'm not able to find on, on this item, juvenile detention contractors, or is this a completely new item? It's a, it's a completely new item. So, while we have some staff in the juvenile areas, we were just trying to find a way, and we had suggested contractors to keep us away from having to add new FTE, which we know we try to avoid as much as we can in state government. So, this was just the juvenile, um, detention facilities just said, you know, if we could get contractors in for this area. So, this would be a new item that's separate from what's in our core in our juvenile. So, you have some employees that provide these security and counseling. I mean, we have detention staff. Um, they might do some mental health as part of their wraparound services, and then we have detention security, but this would be an additional contractors on top of those. And I note that you have a proposed rate here of. Yes, um, the security at 27 per hour. Or 25 and 27 for the two. Yes. For the mental health counselors, that seems, uh, somewhat inadequate to me. And the data is probably a couple of years old, but this is what we had gotten from talking to our facilities with what they thought they thought they could do at that time. Have there been any studies or anything to support the need for this program, or is it simply your current staff is overwhelmed? Um, it is simply our current staff is overwhelmed, I think, largely. Okay. Well, of course, we know mental health is related to almost all of criminal activity, I think. So, providing those services to people when they're still considered juveniles, it seemed to me like a very reasonable ask. In the higher end, the older juveniles, you just, you have less runway with them. They're going to be in the facility a shorter amount of time given their age, and, um, there may have been issues that, so their, their needs are much more intensive, and you need to do a lot more in a shorter amount of time than you would with a 10 or a 12 year old. And you said that, uh, DYS mothballed some facilities. You know the number of beds that were mothballed? I couldn't tell you. I'll stop my head. Can you get it for us? We can try to get that for you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Douglas, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good morning. Good morning. Excuse me, um, as, uh, my colleague down the row here, uh, brings up the mothballed buildings, in the 27, I do know that there is a, a mothball facility, and it's not included as, um, increasing the capacity. So, what are the plans on that particular mothball? Um, well, if it's a DYS facility, it wouldn't be in our budget. No, it's, it's Family Court, Jackson County Family Court building. Okay. It's a county building and not a state building. So, it's outside of, one, it would be a county ask, and two, we would have to go to them to see if there was even any interest in that. Um, the ones that we're bringing with to increase bed capacity are state facilities. Okay. All right. Great. Thank you. Just to clarify, oh, I now see Representative Steinhoff has an inquiry, but just to clarify, uh, there, because I, this question I had at one time, and correct me if I'm wrong, but not all but not all juvenile detention facilities that somebodymight find across the state are under the, you know, direct control, anyway, at least of the judiciary. Right? Some of those are truly county facilities. Or truly county. Some are groups of counties have come together to build a detention facility. The juvenile realm is a strange mix of state and county funded, and I'm happy to come visit with you and try to make that a little clearer, because it was an education piece for me, for sure, when I took this job, as well, understanding how those weave together. Representative Steinhoff, you have an inquiry on this item. Please proceed. Thank you. Yes. So, I would imagine that when you developed this NDI, you had a plan for how you would use that. If you were to get partial funding, would you be able to step in and, like, have you prioritized where these needs are? I don't... Yeah. That's kind of... So, I think what we do in other areas, where we just have a set amount of money, and it may not be all the money that we need, we ask for input from those different facilities to sort of list their need, and then we just have to prioritize... Kind of scale it back a little bit. With what we have. Yeah. I hear what you're saying about staff being totally overwhelmed, and I also echo the other representative's comments that mental health resources are the way to be able to attack recidivism. And so, although we are housing these children, if we really want to improve their future outcomes, which would improve our outcomes as a state and citizenry, then we have got to address some of those core needs. So, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. Moving on to page 36. We have been working on rolling out a state pretrial program. This gets into some of the conversations we've just had around juvenile, but the statewide pretrial program, we were allowed, with your all's help, to increase some of our pilot sites last year. And so, we're working on increasing programs in the 6th Circuit, the 9th Circuit, the 27th, the 29th, the 30th, the 33rd, the 34th, the 40th, and the 42nd. And if you flip to the last page, for those of you who aren't sure where I use those numbers, we show where the judicial circuits are. I probably should have started with that this morning. But so, our vision for pretrial is it's important that we know the likelihood that a offender is going to re-offend, and that we're only housing people in jail who are either a danger to the community or a flight risk. And those are what are outlined in our Constitution about people who should be held. You can actually do more harm sometimes by holding the wrong people in a facility when they aren't a danger or aren't a flight risk. And so, the pieces of this are assessing that individual, looking at when they've re-offended in the past, what their crimes are, but then also adding supervision while they are out. So, you can't just say, okay, you don't have to go to jail, but are we giving them the right resources and the appropriate supervision while they're in the community to make sure they're showing up for their court dates and doing those things that they need to do, but while also still hopefully holding down a job and being there for their families. And so, we had asked for an expansion of that. The governor did not recommend it, but this is something that we are going to be working on continually in the next few years, much like our treatment courts. We would like to see it statewide eventually, and we'll continue to work with the chairman and any others who are interested in finding a way to do that over time, because we believe that this is so fundamental and every person in the state should have the opportunity. Can you explain how, and I think you did some there, but there's a, in House Bill 5, at least to date, there has been a statewide, I forget what we exactly call it as far as the nomenclature for the DI, but in my mind, it is a statewide, or intended to be a pretrial monitoring program that's of free use to the counties, and that's some sort of electronic type monitoring. But this is more for staffing, so this would be people to try to coordinate that or connect people with resources, or like, what is the distinction there, because this isn't exactly monitoring in any electronic sense, is it, is what this would be requested? Well, I mean, it could be, but sometimes in the electronic monitoring is not appropriate for everybody. Sometimes that can be actually more disruptive than what that situation calls for. We are aware of that contract. I know that it's offered up to counties. It's not anything the judiciary has been directly involved in. We did have someone, I think, serve on the committee that looked at the RFPs for that just as far as a technical support, but that's not something that has been directly involved with the judiciary. Thank you. Representative Steinhoff, you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you. I'm guessing, tell me if I'm right, I'm guessing that if we could invest more in the pretrial program, we could reduce costs on holding people. Would that be fair to say? I think that would be fair to say that if we had a good working statewide pretrial, and we hope to be, as we expand our trial sites and have more experience there, be able to show that there will be cost savings. I'm not going to tell you that it would be necessarily cost savings in the judiciary, but hopefully it would be cost savings in reimbursements to counties or prison costs. It may show up in other places, but it wouldn't necessarily be a dollar for dollar in our budget. Okay. That would make sense. Do you know if there's models out there that do show that cost, at least from a state level, like a state budget? Sure. There are other states that have statewide pretrial, and some have very robust programs and have had for years, and they have had those savings, yes. Okay. I think it'd be helpful if we had some of that, if you've already done some research on that, to just kind of see for every dollar, kind of the return on investment for every dollar we invest here, where else in the state budget could we foresee in future years? I know it wouldn't be like flip a switch, but it probably wouldn't be too far behind either. Yeah. We're happy to see what we have and provide what we can. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay. Representative Voss, then Representative Black. Representative Voss, you're recognized. Yes. Thank you. You spoke faster than I could take notes. So, the pretrial program last year, or the current fiscal year, was an NDI. Correct. And that's being launched in which circuits or which areas? So, I have a list that we can share with you. But so, where we were able to do, we were able to either expand or create new ones. And right now, we are in the sixth, which is Platt. That's going to be a new program. A new one in the ninth, which is Sullivan, Sheraton, and Lynn counties. We were able to beef up one in the 27th, which is Bates, Benton, Henry, and St. Clair. The 29th, Jasper County, had an existing program. A new program in the 30th, which is Webster, Polk, Dallas, and Hickory. We had an existing program in the 33rd, which is Scott and Mississippi counties. We now have a new program in the 34th, New Madrid and Pemiscott. We had an existing program in Newton and McDonald, which is the 40th circuit. And then a new one in the 42nd, which is Dent, Crawford, Iron, Reynolds, and Wayne. Got it. So, this, to clarify, and again, I need more coffee, I apologize. So, we had a program, and we got an NDI list year to expand it. And it looks like we haven't touched most of that NDI money in the current fiscal year. Yeah. So, we had to, what we had to do was put out some RFPs and hire some staff, which made. So, the launch is purposely second. Yeah, but the first half wouldn't be a good indicator. Perfect. That answers my question. And if you have a handout, I'd love to at least have a picture of that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. Page. I'm sorry. Representative Black, I think, has something on this as well. Representative Black, you may proceed. My apologies. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, I think we'd all like that information Representative Voss just asked for. It seems, anecdotally, that there's an inconsistency with regard to pretrial release in the circuits around the state. I think, perhaps, maybe in the rural counties, a person arrested for drug charges might actually be charged sooner than, perhaps, the urban counties, based on the information that I've been made available. And so, if you've got, say, somebody's arrested for a drug crime, they are taken to jail, bumped out, charges not filed for some period of time, you know, a year, two years, maybe close to the statute. During that period of time, then, this is all, of course, pretrial, they might commit another crime and another crime and another crime. And by the time they actually get charged, they've got pretty serious charges addressing or facing them. If, in fact, those persons are charged quicker and dealt with more, in a more rapid fashion in the system, then maybe that first charge, if dealt with appropriately, may be treated trial considerations, maybe, you know, drug court or something. Maybe those subsequent crimes wouldn't be committed and maybe this would be better for the individual and the society at large. Is there any guideline target that the court has put out with regard to how quickly a person should be charged on the various levels of activity, criminal activity? Representative, I couldn't speak to that off the top of my head. I would have to go back and look. But for the committee's, I know you know this, but for the committee's purview, I would just want to point out, too, that while there may be how quickly someone is charged is solely under the Office of the Prosecutor.prosecutor and the prosecutor is not part of the judiciary so that is not an area that we have any control as far as how quickly someone is charged but I can go back and we can look at our information to see if there's anything like that but that would probably something that would be more in line with MOPS which is the Missouri Office of Prosecutorial Services or maybe the AG's office would have information on that. As far as you're aware the court doesn't have any proposed guideline or suggestion or anything. No I don't think that would be anything that we would weigh into but I'm happy to go back and ask the people that know more than me. Thank you. Please proceed. All right page 39 is a new decision item that we requested. This is for our cost for information and security of our case management system. This is just some of the increases in cost of we've had to beef up some of our security because of some I won't call it attacks but we've had some incidences where our systems have been touched but so this is our increased security costs the governor did recommend it. If you'll move on to page 41. Is this a this is requested as looks like is ongoing is this truly an ongoing annualized need or cost or is this like a one-time upgrade or part of this a one this is a yearly increased cost. Boy that's a lot of I mean I know technology is expensive it's I clutched my pearls when I saw the bill. Yes so this is something we currently have and it's like the vendor is like here's the bill for next year and what does this I forgive me I don't know what the what we currently spend on this particular whatever this is what does this represent as a percentage increase do you know this as far as to what we're currently expending on this service. Okay okay so what this shows is the total bill last year the bill for this was 3.5 and we were given a 3.4 percent increase for this coming year so for the total for it is 3.8. So it's a 3.8 percent increase? Off of last year's bill 3.4 percent. So we're spending like a hundred million dollars? No no 3.8 million is the total bill. For an increase? No it's the total bill so last year we were able to manage it with existing funds we are not no longer able to do that and so we have we are showing what the cost of this increase is for us. I see so what what do you intend to spend that 3.8 million dollars on in fiscal year 2026? On this security bill? No no not this money the money you're the three point let's 3.6 million in fiscal year 2025 is what this service costs? 3.55. Okay so what are you what what are you having to spend the 3.55 million on in fiscal year 2026 that in fiscal year 2025 you're spending on this initiative I guess that's the question. We were able to tap into ARPA money to pay this bill last year. I see. And we no longer have access to that so. And last year as in when we were budgeting so for this current fiscal year? Yes. So this initiative is currently being the 3.55 million is currently being expended with with ARPA dollars and this so this is really a GR pickup? Yep. Is what this is? Understand. Representative Steinmeier you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair thank you ladies for being here this morning sorry a little late. On page 39 we're and I agree it's it's a big number but I would like to know what the costs break down when it when we're talking about security and maintenance what's the percentage of this rather large money that we are spending in the maintenance side and the security side? Okay can I can we talk to you offline with absolutely share with the committee? No I'd like to hear that all right thank you Mr. Chair. All right so if you'll go to page 41 this is a request for some library maintenance and a juvenile a judicial discovery center we have as the incoming chief had suggested we had been given appropriated this money a couple of years ago but it was put in our house bill 12 and then we were limited by OA on how much of it we could spend at a time we are tapped at 50,000 per contract and we did not have their aid in spending it so we had to lapse most of that money and then last year this money was in the House and Senate versions of the budget bill but did not come out in the conference report and so we are asking for it again this would help us we are trying to create as much as we can a judicial discovery center for the youth groups and leadership groups that tour the Supreme Court much like they do the Capitol just trying to make something a little more interactive and interesting to our technology children who don't necessarily like to have law clerks just reciting facts at them so that is what that is and then if you move the governor did not recommend that money but then if you move on to the building restoration on page 44 this would be to repair some falling plaster and other things that we have in the building do some historical renovation and that is paid for he recommended funding that out of the Missouri State Capitol Commission preservation fund I will say and I think you might underestimate your staff and invariably I get comments from school groups and different things and I know everybody's very busy just like people are very busy over here as well and especially when a you know a judge of the Supreme Court takes time to visit with the school group and I just hope you pass that on and the incoming Chief Justice to your colleagues that that you know we get a lot of comments about that I'm surprised and I think it's great you all take off you when you can time to do that to speak to groups in the courtroom and it's always a very nice and pleasant surprise to the in very surprising to the groups that that come through so I do they they do do a great job a lot of comments about that and we are very appreciative I think it probably came to to my attention I have a neurodivergent child and the first time I watched her go through it and had always heard those comments but realized that as someone who really struggled to read and pay attention she got nothing from it and so to find ways that are a little more interactive or visual for those that just learn in different ways I think it became a passion project of mine and a lot of others in that way once I realized firsthand how they weren't they weren't getting all this great information thank you representative hi you have something on this you may proceed thank you thank you mr. chair so you had the money in a previous budget had you started down the pathway with plans on how to spend the money yes so we we have plans we have building documents we have all of those things we just aren't able to kind of do the final push so it was just that glitch in not being able to get it out of the budget to put those plans into place I remember the conversation I correct so what it was in our budget we only had it for a year right so to kind of do those contracts and do those things and then to have the spending cap that's in place which I understand why there is a spending cap it just there weren't enough $50,000 projects out of a renovation like that to be able to make it feasible to get it done in a year got it thank you thank you very much thank you mr. I guess on that just to make sure I understand if we were to you know consider this and maybe you just can follow up in written documentation to my office but the if the 50,000 cap because you're asking this for the in your budget no I would rather I mean it's it's in here but we have asked for it house bill 19 or somewhere but just and it's recommended in 19 I was just trying to give some of the history that's right yeah I remember and and so yes it needs not to be in your budget and that was kind of the issue previously so very good thank you not often we have people saying please don't give me the money right so page 46 is a treatment court commissioner for the 39th circuit they do meet the weighted workload to qualify for a commissioner but the governor did not make that recommendation if you'll move on to the pay plan on page 48 this is just the cost to continue for the the tenure for our 24-hour workers from last year that was given the FY 25 the 1.% pay raise for employees with two years of service in our juvenile facilities court reporters we already talked about on page 51 on page 53 the Western District Court of Appeals would like to create a position of a chief deputy clerk and change the title and duties of an existing clerk that they have for a cost of 20,000 the other two appellate districts do have this distinction but that was not recommended page 55 is the judiciary pay plan this is the governor's pay plan that you've seen across the board the next few pages will be our pay plan and we do this just because when the personnel board I think used to do pay plan recommendations the judiciary was not included so we have a consultant that does market comparisons for us and has put together pay plans over the years and the next several pages would be what it would take to get our staff to target we will be happy with the governor's pay plan whatever this body decides what I will just ask is there have been years in the past when the General Assembly might be unhappy with a decision of the court and and and I I know that that shocks you all and could never happen but there have been times when our staff have been singled out and I mean judicial staff across the state to notget employee pay raises because of that, that all other state employees do, I would just ask you to please not punish them in that way. A lot of times the staff haven't even seen the Supreme Court or the appellate courts, and so just treat us like everyone else would be my minimum ask on that. Okay, we've got several inquiries lined up here. We'll go Representative Mayhew first. Representative Mayhew, you are recognized for an inquiry. And I apologize for making you go backwards, and I apologize for being late. I had other House duties that took precedent, unfortunately. Can I back you up on page 21 for a real quick question, please? I'm assuming this has something to do with the expungement stuff. Yes, sir. But this doesn't take into account the county's contributions to that process. Is that correct? So what this, what we're not asking for that we have, and I wanna be sure I'm answering your question, is that we're not asking for the overtime pay for our staff to do the expungements. And the reason that we haven't done that is because the time in that amendment for those to be done has passed. And so that work should be completed. So what we are asking for is just the software and some of the hardware pieces that we need to keep the data secure, as required by that amendment. Do you guys have access to, or a way to get at the number of the amount of money that the counties spent, each of the circuit clerks spent, on the expungement process? I believe all of, I'm not sure what I know that the counties would have spent. I mean, we paid for the overtime and paid for those clerks as state staff. So I think that's the part that I'm struggling with is what the county expense would have been. So in that case, then you do have a number of how much money totally was spent on that. If you could collect that data for me, and if you have it by county, that would be great. But if it's one big aggregate number, that's okay too. Yep, we can get that data, sir. Thank you, I apologize, Mr. Chair. So going back now to the pay plan, and before we go to Representative Black, because I'm gonna have to step out for just a minute, just to be clear about, to speak to an earlier inquiry, clarify for me on the governor's pay plan, as requested. Would this apply to elected circuit clerks? I do not, have we looked at that to see if, usually these do not apply to statutory salaries or elected officials. But you think, you would use it? I believe it would, but that's. You think that dollar amount? Okay, they will, but I don't believe the, but like, commissioners and judges in, put some in, but not court reporters? Okay, circuit clerks are in there, but not court reporters. Okay. So circuit clerks are included? Yes. So if we, if the governor's recommendation was included in the fiscal year 2026 budget assigned by the General Assembly, a circuit clerk could see some increase, up to 10%, if they'd been in office for 20 years, or? Yes. State employee. 1% for every two years, max, yeah. Many circuit clerks are employed as state employees, you know, simply in the, you know, circuit clerk's office prior to being elected as a circuit clerk. How would this be applied to a circuit clerk that, say, served in the office, maybe as the chief deputy to the circuit clerk for 10 years, and then was elected, and now has been a circuit clerk as an elected capacity for 10 years? I think as long as, we would have to go back and look at how they've put in the numbers, so, because we would pass it on as we were given the appropriation for. The only hesitation I have on that is, I think it would be passed through, regardless, I'm not sure there's a limitation, but there are some deputy clerks that are county paid in those counties that can afford to hire, and so I'm not sure that their service as a county employee would transfer over, but I just wouldn't make that, right, you wouldn't think. But if they were state employees, whether they were, you know, serving in one job or another, then presumably they would. If their service is in the system, and we had the amount of money to do that, if we had the correct appropriation. Thank you for the clarification. Representative Black, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. And I'm gonna turn the chair over to Representative Voss. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Along the same lines as Chair's inquiry, on page 66 of the book, you've got job titles, court clerk, and senior court clerk. And, you know, government money there. My question, are you talking about circuit court clerks and senior circuit court clerks? Are you talking about some other level in the system other than circuit? Let me confirm. Okay, so the court clerk, the senior court clerk, and the principal court clerk would be staff that's working under the elected circuit clerk. Under the elected circuit clerk. Now, you just said, and this is, are the deputy clerks, I think you just maybe said it's a mix, but I'm not sure. Are the clerks in the circuits state paid or county paid? They're largely state paid, but they are, there are counties where there was a need and the county could afford to bring in. And I probably use deputy circuit clerk as a larger nomenclature for these different specific job titles. But there are some counties or circuits where they are county paid. So, if I understand, in most cases, the principal court clerk here would be the elected clerk. Do you believe that to be the case? Or are these subtitles beneath the elected clerk? So, circuit clerk on page 57 would be the elected clerk. 57, not 66? Yeah. Yeah, I see it there. I see circuit clerk. I see what you're talking about. On 57, do you think that's the elected clerk? And you think these over here on 66, court clerk, senior court clerk, principal court clerk? I think those are different job classifications that I'm probably using the global term deputy clerk for, but these are different levels of those. So, to follow up on the chair's questions, if the pay plan's approved, then, and if it's the norm that all these positions are state paid, then the time in service would count. Thank you. Okay, I think we have another inquiry. Representative Lewis, please proceed when you're ready. We're already kind of saying, my question, I think, is similar. Because we haven't seen anywhere where the governor didn't recommend pay increases other than here. It looks like, you know, his pay increase, the plan that he has, the 1% for every two years of service, and then the 1% for those people that are in a different category. That pay plan is kind of what he's doing globally for state employees this year. Yes, and he did recommend that for us. Right, and that appears to be some of those other little items, if you will, that he didn't recommend the pay increases that you had put in this budget. That's the reason he didn't. Is that the way you understand that? Okay, yes, generally, if the governor recommends a global pay plan, then they do not recommend funding ours. But you already had yours in there. But we had already made the request before we knew what they got. We have to submit ours by October 1st. Is there anything in here, you know, we're down in the weeds here on what type of employees are what, and whether they qualify or whether they don't qualify. Basically, the governor's pay plan for trying to retain, I think it's a good idea. I think we've been, I think the committee seems to be generally supportive of that concept. But I think what we're seeing in here is you had recommendations for NDIs for pay plan increases that didn't coincide with what the governor did because you put yours in first. Right. And so, if we see that as- And we were trying to move to Target, and so it just, yeah, it was kind of different apples and oranges there. Right, all of those examples that we see in here, I mean, or is there an example that, well, this one should fit the plate, or you know, that this doesn't fall under that category, they're not gonna get an increase? Is there anything like that? I'm thinking more globally because, you know, we're nitpicking at little bitty items, and I'm saying, can you point out to us, is there somebody that we're, oh, is there something that's overlooked, that that's the way I'm understanding it as I look at this. He's not recommending your pay plan because his pay plan is better and is superseding it this year, you know, currently for his- Yeah, while the amounts aren't the same, I don't think there's anyone that was in our pay plan that he's not covering, he's just covering in a different way. I think that you answered my question, and maybe we can just kind of move past some of that. Thanks. All right, perfect. Okay, I think we have one more inquiry up here. Representative Mayhew, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Hey, so help me out with the salary schedule here. Is this the increase in that position statewide? In other words, let's just do the drug court commissioners $105,000 essentially, so that 105 is spread through all-of the drug court commissioners? Yes. Okay so what does that amount to per this ballpark mean? Yeah so what we could do is break that down once we figured out years per service but it. So they so what were the governor recommended that basically a hundred and five thousand dollar increase to be spread through all the drug court commissioners? Right. So just as a reference if we go back to page 46 I know it didn't get approved by the governor but that will bring that salary up to 165,000 base or 100 almost 166,000 per drug court commissioner statewide. I think this request was probably submitted at our number at the statutory so this number would not be and well and of course it would be a new position so there would be no we would assume no prior tenure experience but but we did this NDI based upon the statutory salaries of commissioners and so this number is not in line with what that pay plan would be that's recommended by the governor. So this raised proposed or the governor's recommendation of the 105 brings it up to the statutory number short of or more than would be the statutory plus the statutory plus okay so is it is that a reasonable number to to estimate that that position statewide is somewhere in the 166,000 dollar category with the raise that we're giving? Yes. Okay all right um so the on the and uh and I know we talked about a little bit but I'm still a little bit fuzzy on the circuit clerks that is line B00100 that's our elected position and that is a salary increase to them for every circuit clerk equally across the state or is that going to be divided up somehow? Well it would be based upon their terms of service. Okay so they get um a certain increase just like any other employee for how many times they even though they are an elected position we base that on terms of of service. Yeah okay I think their salaries are different based upon their county classification too so they don't they're not yeah I was just making just trying to get up with the terms not and across the board kind of everybody gets 500 bucks or something like that it's it's it's based on uh some other factors. Okay all right uh that's what I had thank you and apologize for the confusion there. Thank you. Seeing no other inquirers please proceed. All right um and then how do you prefer we go through the cores do you want me just to address the cores that have differences? I've even been known to skip all cores one year because I just got so excited to leave. What I will tell you is I think I think the committee would enjoy wrapping up the judiciary review before we break for 10 o'clock. Yep. So if you think you can get through them all great I don't know how many questions people have in their pre-work but. Okay so I will just take you through the supreme court core is on page 94. That is there are no changes to that. Page 101 is the core for the supreme court judges salaries. The judicial salaries are lined out separate from the rest of our operating budget. There's no core change there. Page 106 is the appellate judicial commission. This is the commission that meets to select panels to submit to the governor for appellate judicial vacancies. Their core is unchanged. Page 111 starts the core for the state court's administrator. You will see on page 113 that there is a core reduction there of $450,000. That's because there were two appropriations in the realm of juvenile justice for the juvenile justice care model program. It was one-time funding for last year so that's why you see that reduction. The court improvements projects on page 118. This is where we are able to move our federal grants through. There are no core reductions there. Statewide court automation is on page 124. No change. Judicial education. Our core is on page 135 and then our core transfer out of the judicial education fund is on page 130. No changes. Our appellate judicial or appellate courts start on page 141 and go through page 175 for the three districts. There's no changes to core. Our circuit courts begin on page 181. You will see on page 183 a core reduction of a little over $2 million. That's for the personal services for the marijuana expungement that we did not ask for this year because that work should be completed. There's also a core reduction of $500,000 that was one-time funding from last year for the 31st circuit which is in Greene County to do some courthouse improvements. We have an inquiry here. Representative Chappell, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So on page 181-182, we're elapsing about $10 million a year. What do we think about that number? Most of that is federal dollars. Yeah, that's our dollars too though, right? I mean we pay those taxes too. Yeah. So what are we looking at? Because we've gone up a little bit. I know there's no increase this year but we've gone up a little bit each year but we're lapsing $10 million and although most of it's from the national government, it is $141 million GR. What do we think about the right sizing of that? Can I get some more information on where we're lapsing that and get that to you? That'd be fantastic. Okay, I apologize. I just don't have that with me. I didn't mean to interrupt you. Go right ahead. No problem. And then there's also on page 183, a core reduction of $750,000. There was a foster care pilot program that was put in the budget but the enabling legislation did not pass for that. The Commission on Retirement, Removal, and Discipline, that core is on page 203. This is a separate constitutional entity that's responsible for disciplining judges. There's no change to their core. The treatment courts on page 209. The core transfer on 209, no change. The core is on page 214, no change. There is a core reallocation on page 217 of a million dollars. We had ended up with two line items for medically assisted treatment and this is medication that helps those in treatment court deal with their addictions. We had ended up with two line items for the medication. We have done a core reallocation of one of those line items to help us provide some wraparound services with the medication. So we're still giving the medication. We have what we need to give but it also allows us to spend some of that money on things like transportation and other things to get them to the medication. And then the core on pretrial is on page 219 with no change. Okay, I think we have a couple of inquirers here. Representative Fogle? Can we go back to page 193? I think maybe we skipped over the CASA money. Is this the only place in the state budget that CASA has dollars? I feel like it may exist somewhere else as well. The only place that we have it. Yeah. CASA is sort of ancillary to the judiciary. It just happened to be in our budget and so I am not a CASA expert. Do you have any idea how much money we would have to put in this line to make sure that every kid who was eligible for CASA services received it? No, but we could reach out to CASA and try to come up with the number for you. Okay, that'd be great. Thank you. Okay, Representative Lewis, I believe you had an inquiry. Yeah, I have two clarification things for me and I'm assuming if I need them clarified then maybe someone else does. The final thing there, that pretrial program, the $1.7 million, that was the pilot program. I guess I'm not, maybe pilot program isn't the right thing, but that was the part we were talking about earlier. This is its core money. We were looking at NDI for an expansion in the previous part of the budget. Right, so this represents the money that you gave us last year that we were able to utilize some treatment court money that we spent on this. So that then goes into the core and it's separate from the NDI that we've asked for this year. Because I know you were going through where these places were expanded on that. Yeah, and we will get this list to you all. And that's this, but we didn't expand the NDI to expand it. Are you going to use other money? Or you just, this is it, you're going to use this money? Well, we'll use our money in the core. We'll continue to work with you all. We would love if you would be willing to fund some more expansion absent a governor's recommendation. And we could talk to you all about where those expansions would be. But if not, then we will use the money we have and come back next year. That's way, okay, good. I actually wouldn't be against that expansion, a little bit of expansion, maybe not the full thing, maybe expanding it, you know, half of it or whatever. Personally, the next piece was the part that got hung up with the repair for your Supreme Court information center, if you will, for kids, et cetera. Did you say that's going to be in House Bill 20? So, the money for, well, there was the restoration. Yeah, there's the restoration. It was recommended for 19. That's two point something million, but the one that was... That we didn't get. That one you could, I think, put in 12 and we could get that done. I'm saying, is it in that budget already? No, it was not recommended. And it's not found in another place in the budget? Correct. Correct. And you said you thought it needed to be an OA, but you were only being given $50,000 allotments and there's nothing you could do for $50,000. Well, when it was in our budget, agencies or departments have limits on what they can spend in, yeah, and so that was just not a feasible way for us to spend it. And that's why you think it needs to be in another budget. Correct, maybe in 19. But it's not there. But it's not. Okay, so I was thinking that maybe it had been placed there. No. So, it's something we need to put a pin in. If it's, you know, if you're the chair for this division, that needs to be relooked at. Make sure it goes to that spot. We already allocated the money in a previous year.got it done and sometimes those type of things because of a probe you know not appropriation but you know how we allocate it that it happens all the time you know so appreciate it I think that clarified my two questions thank you okay representative Martin I believe you have an inquiry yes yeah thank you thank you for your work just a quick question in your budget request book here is there a page that I'm just not seeing that just kind of has a summary of everything you've got your core items and then your your items that your other your new decision items then I know you've got this new tab needed but not requested so I was just curious if there was one that kind of summarizes everything that I'm just not seeing no I mean absent absent sort of the table of contents where you could kind of look you know we have a and we have a general like just two or three pager on page one to three that talks about our priorities but but we could get a tracking sheet or something like that for you that we use internally that you might find helpful if you could yeah that'd be great yeah it's kind of summarizes here's our here's our core here's what we're asking an additional and then you've got that other needed but not requested that'd be great to have that on there we can we can get a shorter little packet of information together for you that puts that yeah I'd appreciate that yeah thank you very much okay represent make you okay thank you mr. chair so I need to chat with you just a little bit offline on that the treatment court commissioner thing it's just a me understanding what this is we went we have those two lines consecutive to each other but then the numbers don't line up if we're moving that to if that's of some kind of a fund transfer but we can do that offline on the pretrial stuff I know that the NDI didn't get approved for that however we I'm working on the jail per diem thing and it appears that the pretrial confinement is driving that increase in cost significantly and I need to know whether or not this program is working to reduce that number and and if so why wouldn't we want to expand it because you know we're talking about 43 million dollars pretrial confinement money and if I can spend two million dollars here and reduce that number significantly why wouldn't we do it so I need to know why we didn't expand that program and do we do we just not have enough data yet or whatever we can do that offline but I do need to talk to someone thank you thank you mr. chair okay seeing representative Murray you're recognized for an inquiry please a quick inquiry and thanks so much for being here good thanks for struggling through it with me I appreciate it okay so my question is on page 199 in relation to the domestic relations resolution could you speak to the unexpended funds year-over-year it looks like it's about a hundred and forty seven thousand dollars from 2024 so maybe speak to the unexpended funds and also just a program as a whole and like what they consist of you okay so the this is a program that we have local courts bill us and so this is the amount that was lapsed is the amount that that was not used by the local courts that's all the information I have with me right now but I'd be happy to get with you and maybe get you some more detail on what that is yeah no problem okay I don't see any other inquiry hands going up so I think that will conclude our public hearing for judiciary if in your follow-up if you would make sure to send that to Kimberly O'Connor in the appropriations office and she can distribute it to all the members so that we all have the information that we've asked for okay seeing nothing else that will conclude our public hearing on judiciary and we will stand in recess until 15 minutes after we adjourn the House of Representatives where we will come back and start with our Public Defender Commission and then wrap up today's public hearings with the Missouri General Assembly all right we do stand in recess thank you you you you