experienced substance use disorder or co-occurring mental health disorders. The services operate 24-7 in a peer-led trauma-informed environment that utilizes a social recovery model. Page 145 is a core decision item for the substance use disorder DESE grant. This is a governor recommendation of $350,000. This core supports funding to the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education to support school drug awareness programs including marijuana initiatives for youth. These funds will support drug abuse resistance materials and programming for school drug awareness. Page 150 is our core decision item for the tobacco addiction prevention. This is a governor recommended amount of $300,000. This core reflects new funding in fiscal year 25 for youth tobacco use prevention initiatives to implement evidence-based interventions to prevent and reduce youth tobacco use. These initiatives will partner with state and local health agencies, associations, schools, and universities. Activities will include training and technical assistance to support the implementation of evidence-based strategies to prevent and reduce tobacco use and increase education and awareness. Are they just narrowly focused on tobacco? They're not talking about vaping, they're not talking about smoking cannabis, you know, there's other things that get into your, you know, these other products get into your lungs too. Why would we just narrowly focus just on tobacco? That's the funding was allocated specifically to address tobacco addiction, so that's the focus of the funding. That's what we're using it for and you're right. You're, I'm over here. Oh no, I'm sorry. So this is a grant from who? This is funding that was appropriated from you guys last year. Okay and who determined that it was just for tobacco? That is what the House bill language says. The House bill, so it's our fault. It's the House bill language says for tobacco addiction prevention. Okay, so in other words going forward we might be smart to add the other things that also impact your lungs. If you're, I mean, if you're already there in the room explaining why tobacco is bad, maybe we should have that discussion about the other things. Well, not your fault, we're bad. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representative Voss, please proceed. Thank you. I think I know the answer to my question, but previously when I was doing some research, I had noticed probably 15 years ago where the state of Missouri was both subsidizing the growth of tobacco as well as sponsoring tobacco cessation with state taxpayer money. Do you know if we're still subsidizing the growth of tobacco in our state through the Department of Ag or any federal funds? We don't know that. Could you follow up, please? And I'll also be happy to ask the Department of Agriculture, but I just want to make sure we're not funding competing priorities here with our monies. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Hausman, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to go back to 140, page 140, if you don't mind. They talked about being a DMH program, but this was a Supreme Court grant, correct? Could you explain that a little bit? Yes, I probably read the wrong, so she was just saying what, go ahead. Yes, the Supreme Court funding is to support Medicaid medical assisted treatment. Okay, that was my mistake. Okay, just wanted a clarification. Thank you. Representative Black, please proceed. I can shine a light on this tobacco issue. Missouri gets like $100 million a year from the tobacco settlement that was in Korea where that was provided many years ago. The amount of that money that actually goes to prevention, that pool of money is minuscule. And so this is an effort to try to get some more money to prevention at various locations around the state from basically, uh, sources are available, including marijuana tax money. The if you ask 10 people on the street, which addictive substance in Missouri kills the most people every year, 99 are going to say opioids or meth. And that answer would be wrong. The addictive substance in Missouri that kills more people in Missouri every year is tobacco, and we don't deal with it effectively. So these sources of findings would be used to address that concern, hopefully in increasing amounts every year. Thank you, Mr Chair. Mhm. I think we're ready for page 1 55, which is our core decision item for tobacco cessation. This core reflects funding for tobacco cessation, which makes funding available for services through the Missouri tobacco quit line. This was a governor recommended amount of $200,000. Mhm. Page 1 60 is our core decision item for Community and Public Health Administration. Fiscal year 26 governor recommendation is $5,471,676 and 68.40 F. T. E. This core reflects the leadership's positions of the division along with staff that support our common operating functions in the areas of fiscal management, general counsel, public information and information technology coordination. Page 1 68 is our core decision item for emergency preparedness and response. The governor recommends $16,274,503 and 36.76 F. T. This core reflects work done in assisting public health, um, including our local public health agencies and our health care system to be able to respond and develop partnerships that already are put in place and exercise such that these agencies are prepared to protect the health of Missourians during a public health emergency. These types of emergencies include events such as tornadoes, floods, disease outbreaks, bioterrorism, mass casualty and fatality incidents. Those are just example of a few that we have. We might experience Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you. Um, let's talk for a few moments about page 1 70. I know that we've been talking about core reallocations, but in this case it's really not clear what the department is doing, you know, ongoing. So if you can highlight what we actually are doing and how much are those, how much are we actually spending on those services? So the we talked about the core allocations, but I do know that this specific one there we had all of the covid and ARPA funds together in our emergency preparedness and response core prior to making those core allocations. And so we have separated those out at the back into their own core. So that's part of the reason why those numbers are so large is because of those large amounts of federal dollars that were appropriated. You're asking for $16 million. What do we actually perform? Um, and how much do we, you know, how much are we actually spending of this $16 million? How much did you spend? How much did you spend last year? Oh, to give specifics, I'd have to get back to you on that to pull or even generalities. But how much did you spend last year? That would relate to we largely spend most of these emergency preparedness grants. So there's the public health emergency preparedness grant funding. There's our hospital preparedness funding and others and those main regular not related to covid. We by and large spend most of those emergency preparedness grants. These are grants that you're providing. You're providing two different community emergency response teams and hospitals. There's contracts to the local public health agencies and various partners. Yes, there's multiple emergency preparedness grants within this. I'm gonna ask if you guys would follow up with me with a little more specifics on what we actually spent last year. Absolutely. We can work on that. Thank you. Thank you. We're ready. Okay. Page 1 76 is a new decision item for our public health emergency preparedness grant authority. This is a governor recommendation of $99,145. We did have a corresponding supplemental for this as well. This request is to transfer the federal authority from SEMA to the Department of Health and Senior Services for a portion of the work done under the public health emergency preparedness grant. Mhm. Page 1 79 is our new decision item for ventilator maintenance. We also had a supplemental for this as well. This N. D. I reflects our request for preventative maintenance of state emergency ventilator cash managed by the Department of Health and Senior Services Office of Emergency Coordination. Cash contains 500 ventilators that can be quickly deployed to the hospitals experience surges in patients with critical respiratory distress, which could occur again with an influenza R. S. V. Our novel respiratory disease pandemic to be ready for deployment and to meet the regulatory requirements that are required.this is the core for our environmental public health. The governor recommends nine million six hundred eighteen thousand three hundred seventy two dollars and seventy five point six six FTE. This core reflects our work to reduce the risk of illness, injury, and death related to environmental causes and ensure sanitation and safety practices that protect overall wellness. Some of the programs in this core are inspection programs that are regulatory, either state or federal, and include such programs as lodging licensing, manufactured food facility inspections, on-site wastewater treatment, retail food safety, lead abatement licensing, and child care sanitation inspections. Other programs include environmental investigations for communicable disease, childhood lead poisoning prevention, and our wastewater surveillance programs. Page 192 is a new... Representative Chappell, you may proceed. Thank you Madam Chair. So it looks like FY 22 through 24 this was just a placeholder item at a thousand dollars a year? So that relates back to the core reallocations we talked about at the beginning. So this, when we did the core reallocations, they, it's related to the House Bill section or the budget unit, and so that would have been in the previous core structure, that thousand dollars, and then 25 ongoing, it's going to be related to the environmental public health. So were the numbers roughly the same for those previous years, just in a different part of the budget? Correct, yes. Okay, and we are roughly half, well we're more than halfway through FY 25, right? And if I'm reading this correctly, we have spent, thus far, a little over 1.1 million dollars on this item, this line item, so far this fiscal year, am I reading that right? Where are you looking at? Page 189. So it looks like on page 189, 190. 190, I missed the page, I'm sorry. So we're at... It looks like as of 2-13-25, the 3.2-4-0-2-0-6. Yeah. So we're at 6.5 million total spent, thus far. Is that correct? I think the 3.2 is the total. Okay, I'm not seeing it. Page 190, the column, looks like there's the 24 budget, 24 actual, 25 budget, 25 actual. I'd like to also suggest that free leaf paper is not conducive to us following you guys very easily, I'll just point that out also. So 190, we're at 3.2. Okay, 3.2 million for the year, we're more than halfway through the year. Do we really anticipate getting to 9, 9.6 this year? I believe so, based on our budgeting and such, there might be some lapse depending on vacancies and other department operations. I appreciate the and such. I'm from down in the Ozarks and when I hear things like and such, that makes me feel right at home. But budgeting and such is not terribly identifiable in the process that we're looking at here. So when we're looking at 25, we're asking for 9.5, 9.6 million, and then we're asking for that same amount again for 26, but thus far we've spent a third of what we asked for for this year, and I'm asking do we anticipate spending the rest of it? The fact that you have the authority is not the same thing as a plan that we're actually going to spend it. Do we have a plan that it looks like it's actually going to be spent? I can get you the specifics on this court if you'd like to see it. That'd be fantastic. Yes. Thank you so much. Lined out by appropriation and what's here. Yes ma'am, thank you so much. You may proceed. Thank you. Next we're on page 192. This is a new decision item for, I don't want to give you all the acronyms, so it's funding through the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act or CERCLA expansion. This is a governor recommended new decision item in the amount of $711,896. This is for a request for increased federal appropriation authority to accept additional funds from the Environmental Protection Agency to pass through to several local health departments for public health work related to lead mining Superfund sites. EPA is responsible for cleaning up environmental conditions in these communities and they work through DHSS to fund locally led actions to assure the cleanup is and remains health protective. Funding is, again, through this Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act which is the acronym is CERCLA. I have a question real quick. When is the Newton County expected to begin its cooperative agreement with DHSS and the EPA? Do you know that? Could you tell me a little bit about it? I might call Jonathan Garut up here. Yeah, Jonathan Garut, assistant deputy in our Division of Community and Public Health, and the question was when is Newton County's contract going to start? Honestly, I wish I was coming up here to give you an answer because I don't know the date off the top of my head. That's a long-standing group down there and work that's gone on down there for for a number of years. The idea of this contract is relatively new though to fund them directly, so I think they're ready to go, but as to what the dates of that contract are, I'm sorry I'd have to get that for you. Okay, thank you. You may proceed. Page 195 is a new decision item Governor recommended for Environmental Health Capacity Grant in the amount of $100,000. This NDI reflects our request for increased federal appropriation authority to accept the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Environmental Health Capacity Grant that will be used to expand and enhance Legionella prevention. Page 198 is a new decision item for unregulated psychoactive products. The governor did not recommend this new decision item. Page 202 is a core decision item for our Genetics and Newborn Health Services. Governor recommends $4,711,936.19.20 FTE. This core reflects our initiatives to increase healthier births and promote as optimal health as possible for those born with rare and certain genetic disorders. Page 210 is our core decision item for Health Informatics and Epidemiology. The governor recommends $6,318,041.55.16 FTE. This core reflects our data units responsible for collecting, analyzing, and providing information on the prevalence of a range of health conditions and diseases, risk factors, and the effectiveness of preventive practices. This information helps our agency and programs, local public health agencies, and many community partners identify priorities for improving health and identifying the best practices to achieve that improvement in their communities. Page 217 is a governor recommended new decision item for DMI staffing increase which is our data modernization, DMI is for data modernization initiatives. This is a governor recommended NDI for the amount of $76,343. This request is to grant additional federal appropriation authority to reclassify two positions in order for us to hire the duties actually needed with our data modernization initiatives since we are transitioning our programming from manual data entry to electronic data feed of the surveillance data that comes in. Page 220 is our core decision item for HIV, STI, and hepatitis services. This is a governor recommended core decision for $109,860,476.50.5 FTE. This core reflects our programs that focus on prevention, testing, linkage to care for treatment, and prevention of reinfection and the spread to others in relation to HIV, sexually transmitted infections, and hepatitis. A large program represented in this core is the Ryan White HIV program which provides case management and wraparound service, wraparound supports. Representative Murray, proceed. Yeah, just to inquire, now I'm looking in the programbook I'm also looking here like it mentions STI testing like HIV testing. I'm trying to find like I thought the state had like some type of a grant program for expanded HIV testing in emergency departments. Would that fall under here? Okay yeah a lot of head nods in the back. Okay that's awesome and then I was just trying to find like because it looks like you said was about 80,000 tests and projection of like 80 to 90,000 like tests year-over-year and I just want to know is it sufficient the amount of funding that you all have for that program or do we need to expand the HIV testing? We would make necessary adjustments based upon the will of the committee here. Okay that's fair and I just want to thank you all for the work that you do. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. Seeing none ladies go ahead and proceed. Page 228 is our core decision item for local public health agency support. The governor recommends 18 million seven hundred eighty three thousand four hundred and forty five dollars and 3.84 FTE. I do want to note on page 232 you'll see the core reduction in the aid to local public health agencies that's equivalent to half of the 2.3 million from fiscal year 24 NDI for the aid to local public health agencies. Representative Martin you may proceed. Yes Jessica a quick question looking on the unexpended funds there. 2024 five million so almost almost a fourth not being spent so just feel me in on that place. 2033 2024 on page 230. Yes so some of this relates to the core allocations but those two if you're looking at the federal amounts so in our core contracts for LPHAs there is a little bit of federal empty federal authority that we lapse each year based on what's available in our CHIP funding to disperse to the LPHAs so those would be empty authority there. And what is the LPHA? Local Public Health Agency. Thank you. Any further questions? Seeing none ladies proceed. Next is page 235 that's our core decision item for nutrition services. The governor recommends 215 million 113 thousand three hundred eighty seven dollars and sixty six point four five FTE. This core reflects the USDA nutrition programs administered by the department for the benefit of Missourians. There are four main programs operated statewide that is WIC short for special supplemental nutrition program for women infants and children, the child and adult food care program, summer food services program, and the commodity supplemental food program for seniors. Page 243 is a governor recommended new decision item for nutrition special specialist staffing. The governor recommends two hundred and thirty eight thousand five hundred and five dollars and 2.0 FTE. This request is for the additional federal authority to add the 2 FTE in order to meet the increased monitoring reviews required by the USDA for both summer feeding program and child and the adult food care program. Page 246 is our core decision item for rural health and primary care initiatives. The governor recommends sixteen million one hundred and fifty eight thousand nine hundred and thirty three dollars and eight point zero six FTE. This core reflects programs and services aimed at improving access to primary health care statewide and to increase health outcomes for those living in rural areas of the state. Primary programs managed under this core are the Missouri graduate medical education grant program, the health professional loan repayment program, faculty preceptors tax credit, and the J-1 visa state 30 waiver program. In addition to managing all the small rural hospital improvement program and the Medicare rural hospital flexibility program grants. Page 254 is a new decision item for the nurse nurse loan funds transfer. We do have a corresponding supplemental for this. The fiscal year 26 governor recommendation is for a hundred thousand dollars. This NDI reflects our request for ongoing transfer authority to the Missouri Board of Nursing. These funds are loan default payments that originated from the previous nurse loan programs that are no longer in existence. Page 257 is our core decision item for oral health services and initiatives. The governor recommends three million nine hundred and thirty one thousand one hundred and thirty seven dollars and nine point four three FTE. This core represents services and initiatives that improve oral health outcomes for Missourians. The Office of Dental Health operates a myriad of programs and initiatives aims at preventing poor dental outcomes. Page 265 is our core decision item for minority health initiatives. The governor recommends four hundred eighty one thousand four hundred four hundred eighty one thousand four hundred forty seven dollars and four point four eight FTE. This core represents the work entrusted to the Office of Minority Health as establishes for purposes under Missouri State Statute section one ninety two point zero eight three to develop public health interventions and strategies to decrease the rate of disparities in underserved vulnerable populations that are geographically and economically isolated. This is primary accomplished through providing technical support for the design appropriate public health messages and outreach. Page 273 is a core decision item for women's health and wellness. So the governor recommended amount of twenty one million one hundred and seventy one thousand three hundred and fifty three dollars and seventeen point five one FTE. This core represents initiatives that serve to protect and improve the health of women and families by coordinating programs and activities across the state. The major initiatives include maternal mortality review and prevention, sexual violence prevention and response, family planning services and other initiate initiatives coordinated through our title 5 maternal child health block grant aimed at addressing the needs of Missouri's mothers, infants, children's, adolescents and families. Oh I'm sorry. Representative Martin you may proceed. What's the definition of family planning services? What would that be and where where is that being where does that take place? What type of facilities? So that is through what's called it you're gonna see one of the up one even is the extended women's health the cost to continue that is funding that is provided to allocated to providers across the day state to just perform annual exams, other screening and print and family-based planning services. Representative Chapel. Representative Chapel you may proceed. Thank you madam chair. They're called mature moments in case you were wondering. Thank you for that I appreciate that. So yet again we struggle to make eye contact. So on this particular. Alright that's fine. So you know of course women's health and wellness there's nobody that's not in favor of making sure that we protect the vulnerable of our society absolutely but my question is it appears yet again that we're only expending 25% roughly of what we had for 25? Are we fine are we finding are we finding it difficult to find people to help or is there some other obstacle? So there have been numerous new programs in this core and so I think that that's part of it as we begin to start these programs, amp them up, get the services out, get the contracts started and so spending has been slower at the beginning of the year but I do think that we would see it pick up as these programs you know we've executed those contracts and we can start paying those contractors and getting those services out there. Well they're certainly not a shortage of need we would all agree right? So this is again new a combination of new and also repositioned within the budget? Yes. So do we know how much we've been historically spending on this effort? I can get that for you. That'd be helpful. Thank you and and you know we're short on time so the quicker the better would be helpful. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. Okay page 281 is the new decision item. Governor recommended amount of five hundred forty five thousand and twenty eight dollars for our extended women's health cost to continue. This NDI represents the department's request for an increase in general revenue funds to support the projected increase in expenditures for the extended women's health program based on current enrollment trends and average expenditures. As of state fiscal year 22 the appropriate general revenue for the program was at its highest at six point three million and when was reduced to the 1.8 million in fiscal year 25. We did have a corresponding supplemental for this as well.How does an individual participate in this like how would you participate in this program? This program they would seek services at a provider who is able then rebuilds the department for the services provided as long as they're allowable under what is covered with the funds. So these are for private then they can like a private individual or a clinic can be reimbursed for? Correct we reimburse the the providers who enroll in the program for those services that they provide as long as they're an eligible service. What is the length of time that an individual utilizes these services? I can't speak to that exact as long as they are eligible to receive the service if they meet like the income or the eligibility requirements and they meet what services they need the need of whatever covered services they would remain eligible to seek care through this program. All right well thank you. Any further questions? Seeing none you may proceed. Page 283 is a new decision item for our Justice for Survivors Fund authorization in the amount a governor recommended amount of $100,000. This NDI represents the department's request to establish authority to spend from a fund that was created by statute. The fees collected in this fund are from training for providers. Page 286 is our core decision item for our fetal infant mortality review. This is a governor recommended amount of $1,831,926. This core reflects new funding from fiscal year 25 to establish a statewide evidence-based fetal and infant mortality review program utilizing the national FEMA model. Page 291 is our core decision item for vital records registration and issuance. It's a governor recommended amount of $3,240,228.28. This core represents the department's responsibility in managing the repository of vital records in the state of Missouri. Specific activities include maintaining central registry of birth, deaths, reports of fetal deaths, marriages and divorces, and putative father registry, correcting and amending vital records as authorized by law, issuing certified and non-certified copies of birth, death, reports of fetal death, original pre-adoptive records, and statements relating to marriage and death. Page 298 is our core decision item for COVID response and ARPA initiatives. The governor recommended amount of $278,581,516.46 FTE. This core reflects all federal grant opportunities the department received through the American Rescue Plan Act, our coronavirus state and local fiscal recovery funds in order to address the public health impacts of the pandemic, restore public health services, and build the long-term public health infrastructure necessary to meet the future public health crises. Representative Martin, you may proceed. Yeah, for inquiry. Yeah, just still kind of wrap my mind around all the ARPA funds, things like that. So these are funds that are expected to be spent this next year. In what way? How are they going to be spent? What for? So they will be spent across the various COVID and ARPA initiatives that we have remaining. We do plan, I don't know that we would spend the entire $2.78 million in the next fiscal year, but we are heavily spending them down. You can see on page, I do want to point that out for the committee, on page 301 and 302, there's many, many, many core cuts and those reflect where we have spent those COVID and ARPA dollars, and so now we're cutting that authority. Because since the dollars have been spent, we no longer need the authority to spend them. And so you could expect to continue to see us reduce those appropriation amounts as we continue to spend each year. And that $2.78 has got to be spent by what time, end of 26? It varies depending on the grant, but usually 26 or 27. I think we have a very few with 27. Okay, and that's what's left in there? Yes. Okay, thank you. And then there's also on page 306, there's another flex form which is a little different than the other flex forms we talked about earlier. It's for 10% within those ARPA initiatives in that specific House Bill section. Next, we have on page 307, a new decision item for our ARPA grant authority. This is a Governor recommended amount of $823,518. This NDI is a fund switch and reflects our request for additional ARPA fund federal authority to sustain the three grants that were once supported through the COVID funds and are now supported through ARPA. This concludes the presentation for the Division of Community and Public Health. Please let us know if there are any questions or further details that we can get you. We will get back all the information and the questions that we have pending still. Thank you very much for your time today. I'm now going to turn it over to Adam Perkins who's our Director of the State Public Health Laboratory. Thank you. Good morning and good afternoon. My name is Adam Perkins and I'm the Director at the Missouri State Public Health Laboratory. I appreciate the opportunity to be here today to present our budget to the committee. The laboratory has been in existence for over 100 years and now exists as a state-of-the-art biosafety level 3 facility that serves to protect and promote public health for all the citizens of the state of Missouri. Our highly trained scientists and support staff receive approximately 250,000 specimens a year and report out over 7 million results annually. We are a leader in the state for implementing advanced technologies to diagnose newly emerging and re-emerging diseases including Ebola, rabies, drug-resistant bacteria, Legionella, tuberculosis, avian influenza, and also to detect potential contaminants in our food and water supplies whether they be chemical or biological. We also partner with law enforcement to identify biological and chemical terrorism agents and provide 65 screens for nearly every baby that is born in the state of Missouri. We are also working towards becoming the state reference laboratory for the Division of Cannabis Regulation to ensure the safety of the products regulated by the division and to be a part of any public health response related to their use. Our laboratory testing services support local public health agencies, health care facilities, veterinarians, law enforcement, and of course the citizens of Missouri along with anyone else who may be a visitor to our state. One thing I wanted to note is to express our appreciation for your continued support of the construction of a multi-agency laboratory campus just down the road that will be including laboratory space for five agencies. That includes us as well as the Department of Agriculture, Conservation, Natural Resources, and Public Safety. This project is within budget and due to be completed on time as required by the funding before December 2026. This represents a landmark investment in laboratory infrastructure for the state of Missouri that will allow us to serve our citizens through laboratory science and become a destination location to generate interest in the sciences as well as the recruitment and retention of a highly skilled workforce. Please turn to page 312 for in the budget book to see the core funding request for the state public health laboratory. The governor's recommendations was for 18 million one hundred forty three thousand six hundred twenty one dollars and a total FTE of one hundred thirteen point five one. Any questions on that core request? Representative Owens. Since Darren Chappell's not here I think I'll take up the mantle. Well there's a lot of unexpended funds here in 22, two and a half million, 2.3 million in 23, 5 million in 24. What is the explanation all this lapsed appropriation? I would like to focus a little bit more on fiscal year 24 because I think that picture's changed a little bit over the past few years. Okay. I think when you're looking at 22 and 23 there's a lot of the supplemental COVID funding that was being used in place of other funding that could have been available to us. And what I would look out for fiscal year 24 is that we do have a lot of cannabis funds and we're making progress towards becoming that cannabis reference laboratory. What that involves for us is a lot of work to validate new methods and to bring on board through their procurement process to specialize equipment we need to do the testing. I'm currently out of the I think there are 11 methods that we're trying to bring on board from both our bacterial side and on the chemical side. Three of those are up and running as of January 2025 and we have some more coming up in July 2025. So to answer your question, we're not doing all the work yet that we're going to be doing in the future so there's some unexpended authority right now is what I would look at. So the funding is getting ahead of the actual production. You're still trying to get up to speed but the funding is already rolling in from the cannabis funds. I'm not sure if the funding is actually there or not but the appropriation has continually been there to have that opportunity to use it. So that assuming that the money then does show up you've got the you got the spending authority. That's correct. Okay thank you. Sure.proceed okay we have one new decision item to present today and this is a governor recommended item in the amount of six hundred forty three thousand seven hundred twelve dollars in one FTE and this is request for in other funds appropriation authority increase and this would support both the newborn screening program at the state public health laboratory as well as the on-site wastewater program within our division of community and public health this increase is needed for the SPHL to continue to fully utilize the fee that we charge to provide the current level of newborn screening testing it will specifically address the cost that we are seeing within our laboratory supplies our statewide courier system instrument maintenance agreements in the laboratory information management system that have risen in cost by an average of eight percent annually it will also support our on-site wastewater program that issues permits to residential wastewater systems and provides for the training and licensing of those professionals who do then do the installation of those systems the growth in this program over the past few years has continued to the point where there's a backlog in the processing of these permits and also a waiting list in the terms of being able to allow these installs to participate in the training that they need to install these wastewater systems the increase in authority he'll roll work towards an additional FTE and supplies that will help to reduce that backlog improve turnaround times and overall better customer service within this program no questions thank you very much I once again appreciate the opportunity to speak with you all today and if there are any additional questions that the state public health laboratory can answer for you please let us know I'm going to turn it over now to our division of senior and disability services and Melanie Highland you just one second while we get set up here ah good afternoon it is 1205 my name is Melanie Highland and I'm the director of the division of senior and disability services and I'm joined here by I'm Shira Doherty I am the fiscal liaison for the division of senior and disability services Thank You Shira before getting into our first budget page I want to briefly update you on the progress of Missouri's master plan on aging the master plan on aging is one of the department's key priorities it was established via executive order in January of 2023 to develop a roadmap of what is needed to support individuals as they age inclusive of those with disabilities let me share some of the key figures to help you understand the thoughtfulness that has gone into this comprehensive plan to help transform the infrastructure and coordination of services for our rapidly aging population this plan is spearheaded by an advisory council and seven subcommittees representing over 300 different entities across the state there were 10 in-person and two virtual town hall sessions conducted in early 2024 where over 1,700 Missourians attended and submitted over 15,000 comments Missouri also conducted a statewide needs assessment in 2024 and received a total of 7,621 individual responses from seniors individuals with disabilities and their caregivers we are currently compiling the recommendations for this 10-year plan which will be available for public feedback this summer before final publication in December of 2025 I look forward to sharing this plan with you next year as we continue to develop a state where all Missourians regardless of their age or abilities can live their optimal life and with that I will turn to page 323 this is the core item for our senior and disability services program operations this is 17.3 million GR 19.1 million federal some other funding authority for a total of thirty six thousand five hundred and thirty dollars and nine hundred sorry thirty six million thirty six thirty six point five million that's easier to say and you'll see that those are the same dollar amounts as recommended in the governor's budget there are four items that are division specific I can't pause okay there are four individual items that are functions of our division the first one is our section of home and community based services this is where we administer our in-home personal care self-direction services to over 68,000 individuals across the state it does also include our Bureau of Special Health Care needs supporting families with children with medical complexities as well as the adult brain injury programs we also have our section of adult protective services this is where we provide short-term interventions for individuals who are at risk or have contacted us through our APS hotline for abuse neglect and exploitation and we have staff that provide again those interventions and respond to those individuals throughout the state we also have our Bureau of senior programs which administers in large part the area agencies on aging or triple A's in this sense as well as some other funding that we're going to talk about later on in the budget lastly we have our office of long-term care ombudsman which represent the interests of residents located within the nursing facilities and veterans homes throughout the state all right representative Chapel we'll start with you thank you madam chair so my mother worked for the Division of Family Services she were she was a child abuse investigator and then she progressed in her time with the state she actually retired from what was then called the Department of Aging the worst acronym in the world by the way and yeah I'm following you so at any rate she she's not ombudsman she's part of that organization and every year they came around and say okay we got to spend our budget anybody need a new desk anybody need new computers every single year and I only bring this to your attention because I notice here that we're lapsing fairly consistently 3 million dollars year over year over year but I also notice that it's overwhelmingly than federal funds that we're lapsing and we're spending largely the GR but the funding on this is close to being 50-50 is there a reason we're lapsing GR and not the Fed or lapsing the Fed and not the GR the way that we have consistently been doing throughout throughout the years here yes so as far as our funding split goes the two we have again 620 staff almost all of those are supporting our HCBS and our Adult Protective Services functions both of those programs receive a federal match some of its related to Medicaid because they do work with individuals with Medicaid so get an administrative rate and there's also some specific grant funding that all federal funds the social services block grant that supports our APS operations and so generally though they're from a large part the GR dollar earns an equivalent dollar like around a 55th 50 split again it depends if they're working on the home and community-based services program if they're working in Adult Protective Services so largely that is this that that is why you have that larger lapse of federal the other reason why you would have a larger lapse of federal is because there are some one-time kovat funds that we have received in which that funding has now expired so that's also why you see a larger amount of those federal dollars and which have been removed from the program so or are going to be cut it's it's the it's it's it's the end of a long process for us here on the budget I understand I may not have heard you correctly did you say that the reason why there is a larger lapse in federal than there is in GR is because there's a 50-50 split in the matching funds oh sorry thank thank you Shira the other piece of this though is our special health care needs staff which is about around 50 of these staff these again are supporting families with children with medical complexities as well as adults with brain injuries and particularly for those with medical complexities they receive a 75 25 split so 25% state share 75% federal so it's kind of a random blend but overall I think the question you were asking me was also about the amount of lapse regardless of that split no actually I'm focusing on this split itself because if 75% is coming from the the if we're if we by and large out of the 600 FTEs by and large it's 50-50 split except for what you mentioned just now is that not what you told me it's not entirely that way about half I misheard you if I misheard you I apologize that's what you said it's approximately but again it depends on the area that individuals areworking on. So specifically just within Medicaid we have a blend of some that are 100% federally funded because there is a block grant or federal dollars. I can promise you that Shira is a miracle worker in maximizing the use of federal dollars over state share. Some of the work if they're doing plain Medicaid like in our HCBS program, it is at equal 50-50 split. But then sometimes again there's a 90-10 split. It could be a 75-25. It really depends on what the functions of those individuals are working on at that time. So here's and then I also heard you say that part of the federal money was from ARPA funding which is now taken out. It's not representative in the budget. However, I'm looking at this and in FY 22 which would have been right in the middle of ARPA right? Mm-hmm. FY 22 it's actually a 26 million dollar budget. Mm-hmm. And now we've increased it to 38.7 this current year and we're looking for 36.5. It is a reduction of some sort. We certainly appreciate that. But I mean we're still seeing this this split of the laps and it's not unique to your department. Certainly not unique to this core and I'm sure that I sound like a broken record to all my colleagues here on the committee. We're seeing this all the way across all the departments almost universally where we spend the GR dollars and not the federal dollars. That's a budgetary mistake. I can't say that I think a lot of that federal a lot of that federal again that you see more recently where that split is more off is due to some of those COVID funds and you'll see me talk about later about how we're going to cut some of that authority. So we're not going to see we're not going to see that moving forward next year. As far as that level of split the hope is no. That we are actually planning. Well you guys are in control of your side and we're in control of our side so let's not hope let's just get it done. I will say the biggest driver of this specifically for our division is our vacancy rate. All right so you can see yeah I think many of you may be following along online but if you do have a paper copy there's the program book okay and in that in our administrator was going to give me the page number here it does talk you can see the vacancy rate or turnover rate and how that has improved over the years. A lot how I came into this role in May of 2021 when everybody was pulled back into the office that we had a very large turnover rate so in FY 22 for just the division we were at 28 percent. About 400 of our 600 staff work in the field. They work in social work type positions okay they're in participant homes and so we were going from just under 30 percent and where we are right now year to date we're at 10.6 percent vacancy rate. These are and there's a couple of reasons for that. We've done a lot of work on retention and in making sure that our workers that have the the education the experience that they need to be able to face the circumstances that they experience but like you said you you have experience in Child Protective Services the Division of Aging that DOA and these people do this they need to have a paycheck but they do this for other reasons than pay. Now I will say the other big piece has done has been helpful is the annual pay increases that supported these staff. These are around what is $45,000 maybe a little bit more than that and they are going into homes where there is alleged abuse neglect exploitation. Again their work is where the people are so you know any kind of pay like the pay plan that the governor is recommending to help out with tenure all of those things help out in trying to attract and keep individuals in this field and so I think overall that's that's the reason why that lapse is there. We are making noticeable improvements with your support of those pay plans and some of the non-monetary things that we can do. Well I want to be clear I I'm grateful for what y'all do it's extraordinarily important work we need to protect those who are the least capable of providing for themselves at either end of the life expectancy spectrum and I'm appreciative of that I truly am but unfortunately in this room we have to translate that into actual dollars and cents as well. Absolutely. And I think it's incumbent upon the departments the executive branch side of things to remember that those general revenue dollars are precious and we have to look for ways to spend the federal and the other funds first and hold those general revenue dollars in arrears as long as we possibly can. We got to take care of everything don't misunderstand but spend the money that's not GR first and we've just not seen that historically in many of the departments and it's just a little personal crusade of mine that I'm trying to bring this to everybody's attention this is horrible budgeting practice I just really want to encourage you all to consider how that split but you're telling me next year it's not gonna look like this and I'm excited about it. We are very hopeful we're making really good gains and we continue we hope that we can continue to you know maintain that vacancy rate or even lower so I can tell you as a former budgeteer for the last what 15 years I I hear that I do understand that GR dollar and I promise you I'm pretty good at maximizing those federal dollars to minimize that state or to make that state dollar go as far as possible. Well I appreciate that thank you very much thank you Madam Chair. Representative Christensen you may proceed. Thank you just to inquire real fast okay on our on page 323 on the APS do you know what our current wait times like so I know we have the online program but for when someone calls do we know the wait time when somebody's calling in by chance? I don't have out of the hand but I thought of my head but I can't get that to you I wasn't prepared for that one I do know so so for we do have two different ways to submit reports online just open 24-7 we also have our our hotline or central registry unit which is open from 8 a.m. till 7 p.m. I think I said that right or it's 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. and and so we did have a large turnover and some staff we do our strong believers in accountability and results and so we had some turnover we now have all of those positions filled they're up and trained they're making really great progress so we were experiencing longer wait times longer drop calls than what we would have liked to have seen but our very hopeful that those are going to be improving you know week after week as those we had about six individuals that all started around the same time and so but I can get you what are what our current kind of wait times are kind of cues as well as kind of what our goals are. Yep and then when somebody places the call do you and you'll probably have to get back to me what is the time that the person makes the report and then we send somebody out to investigate. It depends on what the allegation is in our policy we have certain things that are classified it's been some classification of the report so if it is a class one report we require in policy that those be seen within 24 hours but some can be 48 or 72 or if it's just an information and referral I think many of you understand the need for navigation of services especially when individuals don't know where to go sometimes actually a large amount of those calls are related to that so it does depend. And then for the people going out and doing the calls are is that our staff or are we hiring third parties to go out and investigate? We do that ourselves so we man the call center and then we do have kind of our social work types that are located throughout the state and we do it for on weekends or holidays especially if there is one of those class ones we do have those that are on call to do that. And then my last question so when somebody does a report especially maybe just online I know there's a button that you can click if you want to remain anonymous but when the person's going out and investigating and the person goes well like maybe the instigator who turned me in is it normally the policy to tell them who had turned in the person? Just one second. That's okay. I was thinking no but I got also agreement that no again all information that is included in that hotline is confidential so no we cannot be sharing the name of the reporter or that. Okay I just wanted to verify that. Thank you so much. Sorry for asking you questions. No I love it. Thank you. Thanks. Okay we're going to move on to page. Hold on one second. Representative Steinmeier. Oh I'm so sorry. I'm sorry sign off. That's right. Thank you to inquire. You may have already said this I apologize but it looks like you do have a core reduction of 2 million I believe it is and some of it might be like ARPA funds. I guess I want to know between the four programs is one program getting hit more than another or is it a general reduction? Okay yeah let me let me go over those and I'll try to like okay on page three we're on page 327. So the first line is a core reallocation. This is really a correction that happened. There were some pay plan dollars that were coded to ourthat really should have been in DCPH. So that's just getting them to where they need to be. On the $236,000, this is a COVID era grant that was specific for advancing the aging workforce. And so those dollars would have been more, that would probably be mainly over, I guess all of it really, for everybody. It was used in a variety of ways to support the HCBS program, it was used to support the APS program and training and education, so kind of across the board there. As far as the 1.7, this is some, so last, okay so we received some enhanced HCBS FMAP dollars, some enhanced earnings during COVID. Those dollars were cut last year, but this was the Associated Fed match to that, that is essentially just empty authority this year. So it is now being cut. So it's not, but it's not like anybody's receiving a reduction. We are continuing these initiatives still, we just don't have that funding source. So each of those departments are probably seeing the same budget they had last year, is that what you're saying? And that that, as far as those functions, we're not seeing any notice of, basically other than these COVID era things, it's flat. Okay. Oh and then there's pay plan, but that's outside of this. Right, right, right. And that's an increase. That is an increase. So our department, those programs are not necessarily cutting their services because of the two million dollars, it was just. Yes, well and these are just, again this item is really supporting the staff that work these programs, okay. Now in some cases like APS, the staff is the program. Got it. The person going out and doing that response is the service. Okay. Okay. Alright. So later on we're going to talk about those programs. Alright. And you'll be able to see that. Perfect, thank you so much, thank you Madam Chair. Seeing no further questions, proceed. Okay, please turn to page 330. This is our next core. So this is our Senior and Disability Services Non-Medicaid Program core items. And this is 2.5 million GR, 4.8 million Fed, a little over 1 million other for a total of 8.3 total dollars. And it looks like those are the same numbers in the GovRec. Oh I'm sorry, I should explain what this is. So this as far as the non-Medicaid programs, there's several programs within this. Some of this is those short-term APS interventions to provide emergent services for individuals who have been reported to our APS hotline. It also supports our Bureau of Special Health Care Needs programs for children with medical complexities who are not Medicaid eligible. It also supports our Family Partnership Program which is really peer navigators that support the work of this as well as the Adult Brain Injury Program who are individuals who are also not Medicaid. And last there is the Non-Medicaid Eligibility Consumer Directed Services Program, we call it just NME, which serves a finite number of individuals that's paid from this core. Representative Steinmeier, you may proceed. Thank you Madam Chair. Where it talks about annual eligibility requirements in this program, what are those? Oh yes, so the NME CDS program as far as those eligibility, I don't know if I know those off the top of my head, it is set in statute as far as what those are. There are currently seven individuals that are receiving this service, however there are 15 that can come onto the program at any time if they choose to. So there's seven currently and the cap is 15? Yes, well essentially this has been a program that as individuals age, pass away, then the number, it cannot grow above the 15. And those that are Medicaid eligible over the last several years, we have already moved them over to the Medicaid program but these are individuals who may have an income or asset limit higher than the Medicaid program. Okay, but you don't know what the annual, can you get that for me? Good afternoon, Jake Lubring, Deputy Division Director at DSDS. The annual requirement that they must meet is they must pay a premium and they pay that on a monthly basis and if they do not meet those premiums and they are removed from the program, they have the ability to pay that in arrears to get back on, but those are the annual requirements. On page 334, there are some core changes within this program. The first line is $105,000 core reduction combined with, we're going to actually do the first two lines together, and then there's another million dollars in the core reduction. Again, these are some specific ARPA funds that were appropriated for APS short-term interventions and those have expired and we are planning to expend all of those by the end of, actually next month. The next two, there is a core reallocation between two different programs. Essentially, we're just trying to get the funding into the appropriate core to be able to provide those short-term interventions when we do have an individual who comes to us through our APS hotline reports. The last is a 2.5 million dollar core reallocation. This is for our senior employment program. It says it's no longer operated by the area agencies on aging. This is actually just a cleanup, so really what has happened is you'll see a core reallocation out of the AAA core to this item because AAAs have not operated this program in over a decade, so it didn't appear to be very transparent as how the program was operating, so that's what we're trying to achieve there. Our next core is on page 337. This is the Medicaid Home and Community-Based Services or Services Consumer Directed Services Program or CDS program. This is one of two different cores associated with our Medicaid HCBS program, which is 1.3, about 3 billion dollars, I think is the current total between the two of them, 1.2. So this is 242 million GR, 422 million federal, for a total of 665 million dollars. There are some core changes to get to the governor's recommendation, and I can go over that here in just a minute. Essentially this is providing self-directed services, so individuals who need in-home assistance with toileting, bathing, grooming, dressing, this gives them the option to select an attendant, to hire and train that attendant, and to provide those very personal services to them. And so this is what that program does. Representative Black, you may proceed. Thank you, how are you? Good, how are you? I want to ask you about these consumer directed, both of them and then the CTC. So the consumer directed, you're shown for 24 of 16 million dollar GR laps, I think we've been here before, 343 for the community-based, a 46 million dollar GR laps, and then on 350, although it seems inconsistent with what we just said, a cost to continue of 197 million dollars total with the governor's rec, all that GR. Can you explain all that? How can we be lapsing that much money, and if we are, why do we need an NDI? Absolutely, so lots of different dynamics that are, I'm gonna, okay there we go, lots of different dynamics that are going on here, okay. So in total, if you're following along because I had to do the math myself, across these two programs, which again participants have a choice in how they want to receive their services, whether they want to hire an agency, and then the agency selects the attendant and trains them and sends them out, or if they want to do that themselves. That's a participant choice, and they can choose amongst the two of them, and some of them use both, okay. So it's around 62 million GR that did lapse last year, and then there was all about 120 million of federal laps. So there's a couple of things that are going on here. We do our best to estimate the cost of this program, but I've been projecting the cost this program for over 15 years, and it's predictably unpredictable. This program, it spends approximately 3.8 million dollars per day, so small changes in utilization can have a really bigimpact. However, thank you to this body. The rates have increased over the last several years and we've also done a lot of work with our stakeholders, our providers, to try to better support the direct service workforce. And so we are seeing some small but meaningful growth in these areas including the availability of caregivers, okay, which really drives, one, increased care but also cost. So since we're still been recovering from COVID where we had really low utilization of the authorized services and we are starting to see that tick back up. And again, I think that's partly because those increases and the work that we're trying to do to support our direct service workers who provide that care. Another issue is that as far as the, there was about 121 million dollars of federal lapse that you see, but also what happened is there was about a hundred and seventy million dollars of federal cuts to the program last year, just the federal. And so we had notified and that would have been more than what we felt we could sustain. We thought there was a level of federal cut that could happen, but this is went beyond that. And so the reason for the cost to continue is a supplemental, is it went about a hundred million dollars too deep. And so that's why we have that cost to continue. As far as that GR is concerned, a lot of it, as well as the increased utilization that is slowly ticking up that we are projecting and seeing, to where we don't believe we will have that level of lapse next year. It's also that we had those enhanced FMAP dollars. I think we spoke about those in the past. And we were doing ongoing program initiatives with those, with the blessing of the House and the Senate. And so when those dollars ended last year, we did not come in and ask for a GR pickup of those, because we felt we had the core funds in GR to continue those at that appropriate match. So we are going to be spending about half of that lapse is going to be already accounted for with those initiatives. Does that make sense? Well I'm sure it made sense to you. Well it doesn't matter if it made sense to me, I want to know if it made sense to you, or if you have questions about that. Yeah, so this makeup that you're going to, you say you're going, well let's just ask it this way. Okay. You don't have the, of course we don't have the 25 numbers. So what lapse are you expecting on those two lines, the consumer directed and community based, for 25 in those lines? I believe that number, we have provided projections to the House budget, or House appropriation staff. I don't know if you guys see those projections, but last I, does it say in our, just a second, does it say in our supplemental? Yeah, I don't have that off the top of my head, I'm so sorry. The House appropriation staff does have those? Yes, yes. It's, we get, so Medicaid payroll runs twice a month, and so I think the projection that you, the House has, is based on the end of January. And so you said we had federal lapse, we had federal cuts, and so in this year's budget the NDI is all fed. Yes. How are we able to do that without a GR match? Well, we're not paying the claims without a GR match. The problem is, is that there was a hundred and, over 170 million of just federal dollars that were cut in the TAFP bill last year. I don't know why. I would defer to this body, but there wasn't the associated fed, GR match that stayed in. And so the reason why we are asking for that supplemental, and therefore that cost to continue, is because of that 170, only about 70 or, 60 or 70 million could be sustained. It went too far. And so therefore, we would not, we would have lost even more GR because we couldn't pay bills. So this program, as we get claims in, we pay them out. And so what's your ask on this line in the supplemental for the, for the, for these two services? It would be comparable, let me, so on a cost to continue, which is on page 350, you'll see it's about 97, 98 million dollars just fed. We do not have a GR need because our shortfall is, we have enough GR to support those split of payments. Okay, I think I'm a little confused, but the supplemental amount is the same as this amount? Pretty much, yes. Thank you. So you're saying you won't lapse in 25? I'm not anticipating a lapsing that significant amount. Again, 3.8 million dollars a day. So, you know, if we are off, it can account, it's a big program, so small changes in utilization. It also just, it depends on, you know, that caregiver workforce. It depends, we know that individuals, we can't just budget all the services we authorize because on average, only around 70% of all authorized services are actually utilized. And that's for a variety of reasons. Consumer choice, I don't want to take a bath today, I don't want this service, or there's a variety of reasons, maybe the appointment at that time, so services don't get used. So, thank you. Representative Christensen, you may proceed. Okay, thank you so much. Okay, I was just going to ask a few questions, and I know this will touch on 343 too, so I'm sorry for kind of going ahead. Okay, so the first question I kind of have is for authorizations, how many third parties do we use to do those authorizations for re-auths? So reassessments, so there's an initial assessment that's done before, and that's all state staff. As far as a reassessment goes, we have, I don't know the number of HCBS provider reassessors who are able to reassess their own consumers, but another partner, so those are contracts that we have with them, or IMAC has with DSS. We also have our AAAs, where I believe seven of them are also contracted reassessors. Those that are not done by a HCBS provider or a AAA partner do come to the state, and then we have to send staff to conduct that reassessment. So for some of the parties that we do hire out to do the reauthorization for the HCBS, not Medicaid reauthorization, do they get paid for a person they see, or is it just like a group contract? It is a per assessment, so it's a per, so as far as that, no, Medicaid, right? Just for like when they're getting like their authorization for, you know, like HCBS, like CDS, like they have to get reauthorized for their plan of care and that sort of thing. Yes, so as far as, again, that reassessment, that care plan development, we pay contracted providers if they are an HCBS provider, and they're essentially reassessing their own consumers, that rate went up to $75 with the support of the General Assembly last year, so $100 per reassessment, so it'd be per person in a reimbursement form. If it is one of our AAA contracted providers, they don't have the same level of potential conflict of interest, and we were able to, with, again, your support, increase their reassessment rate, and they can be paid up to $175 per reassessment, but it is dependent upon maintaining a certain amount of increased volume and a certain quality measure that we hold our staff accountable for as well. And I just, I just kind of make sure I'm kind of thinking clearly on this, so if you're a provider agency that also does the assessment part as well, so they can assess their own people that's in their agency, would that be kind of a conflict of interest? Could they, wouldn't they want them to stay on the service? It could be, yes, which is why, so this is the arrangement that happened after a third-party independent contractor was in place over ten years ago and was not super successful, and so essentially we we want our providers to participate, but that's also why we have kind of two different kinds. We ultimately do have an entire team dedicated to reviewing those provider reassessments, to kind of look over them as well, to try to minimize that conflict as much as possible. Did you have something you wanted to add? My name is Kim Tobin, I'm Deputy Director for the Division of Senior and Disability Services, and we do have an entire, as part of our agreement with the feds, we have an entire team which we call the provider review team, and so they review every one of those provider reassessments to make sure that the assessment is accurate. So I guess the question I have, because sometimes of course mistakes do happen, you know, I'veI've caught some, of course, myself, but if you're having, I've always, I find it interesting that if you have, you know, a group that's assessing their own people, they're gonna be more likely, of course, to be favorable to their own. And I mean, there's so many people in the program, which it's a great program, it keeps people in their homes. I love keeping people in their homes and not sending them to nursing homes, which of course costs the state more money than doing these programs. But I mean, there's gonna be, I guess, would you have the ability of figuring out when you have agencies that are assessing their own people, are they have higher people staying and getting reauthorized versus kind of just independent groups that are only doing that or you guys doing it? Would you know that information or that is just too much? We do, we have similar information. We do look at, just last year, we had what we call the level of care transformation. And so we were doing a lot of review on that, on how many people were reauthorized or reassessed and met those level of care. And in that, there was not a discrepancy, a large discrepancy between our providers that were assessing their own versus our state staff versus our value-based providers doing those. So you didn't feel like there was? No. Okay. And then do we know the, while I have you up here, do you know the average processing times for new HCBS referrals? Sure, so by statute, we are required to complete an initial reassess or an initial assessment within 15 days. And I will say we meet that around, I think it just was last week, we get them weekly reports around 95% of the time. Yeah, I feel like it's gotten a lot faster too. And then do we have the processing times for participant assessments? Do we know? You mean the reassessments? Yes. I mean, basically that occurs a year following the month that they came on to HCBS services. And so generally we have around 30 days for our staff to complete those. They're kind of sent out to provider reassessors in advance up to like, I think almost 90 days. So they're reassessed in the month that would be their annual reassessment. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you. Seeing no further questions, you may proceed. Okay, there were two core changes on page 340 for our CDS program. The first is a core reduction and this is associated with the FMAP adjustment. There is a statewide NDI that is again, the annual FMAP change essentially because our blended FMAP went from 65.5% to 64.658%. We have to pay more GR to support the program and less federal amount this year. So that is what you'll see. There's an offsetting GR increase as well for no net change to that part. There is also a core reallocation of $5.2 million. And this is from the HCBS, the agency in-home model here to the CDS program. Again, participants have a choice in how they want to receive this care. And so we have seen more individuals that want to choose the self-direction. And so we're trying to shore up our core to match anticipated expenditures. On page 342 is our flexibility request form. We are requesting 10% flexibility between those two different models. Again, largely driven because participants have a choice in how they want to receive these very personal services. Page 343 is our Medicaid home and community-based services core or agency model or in-home core. Again, I explained this earlier. This is where the participant requests an agency provider and the agency sends out an attendant and does the training on their behalf. It's 238 million GR, 376 fed for a total of $615 million total dollars. There are some core changes here that were done for the GovRec. So let me go to those on page 346. So there are several changes here. There are some cleanup in these core reallocations. You'll see that on the first two lines and then that fifth and sixth line. Essentially it's cleanup between budget units, technical stuff, whether it's a contract or a service but nothing's really changing as far as what we're doing there, just some cleanup. We do have a core reduction here of 57,751 GR and a matching amount of federal. And this is associated with a new decision item called what the Division of Regulation and Licensure has to basically have a net increase or no net increase to the cost of regulating the new prescribed pediatric extended care program, also known as PPEC. This is a medical daycare model and we do believe there are going to be some savings essentially associated with just those ratio of staffing to child that there's just some savings that can offset that increase in DI. So we're seeing a cut there. As far as the GovRec changes, there are three FMAP adjustments. We have separate lined out items for our brain injury waiver as well as our structured family caregiving waiver and then the large FMAP adjustment which is associated with the GR pickup. The last is that core reallocation I just mentioned. This is that five two coming from the agency model and going into that self-direction for no net change to our HCBS programs. And again, that flex request form appears on page 349. Again, that 10% that requesting between those two house bill sections. Page 350 is our first NDI. This is our Medicaid home and community-based services cost to continue. The department request was 9.8 million GR, 127 million fed for a total of $137 million. The governor's recommendation is different. It is only $98 million federal funding authority and essentially the reason for this is we have better numbers. Instead of projecting with one or two dots to understand trajectory, we have four at that time. And again, you'll see the updated projections that are sent to the House Appropriations Committee to understand where that number comes from. Page 353 is our next core. This is our HCBS enhanced map. And can I stop you right there? Oh, yeah, yes. Representative Hines, I'm sorry that I missed you. Did you have a question? Thank you, Madam Chair. Well, and I was kind of waiting to see if this was gonna be brought up in your conversations about these services. I know we've been able to increase pay for providers the last few years. Within your current budget, is there any room to continue those types of increases? I mean, we're not cutting any rates. You're meaning to continue to give higher rates? Yes. I think that there's, I don't recall the exact number, again, of what we are projecting for FY25. Kim, do you wanna add to it? Or you just wanna whittle this along? Okay, so. Well, I was just gonna add that any additional rate increase would increase the need for a cost to continue. So we already have a cost to continue in here, so any additional. Sure, and I understand that. I guess my question is, is a rate increase built into. There is no rate increase built into this, into the governor's recommendation, no. In all of our consumer-based services, home-based? Not into our CDS or agency model, not into our Medicaid HCBS. It is continuing the prior rates that have been appropriated. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Proceed. Okay, page 353 is our next core. This is our HCBS enhancements. You'll see this is at zero. And the reason this is at zero is these are those enhanced HCBS FMAP dollars that we received during COVID. We expended all of those, and so that's why it's zero. You'll see those core reductions on page 356. Essentially, we spent them. So you won't see that core in the future. On page 359 is our senior services growth and development program transfer. This is a little odd, so just stay with me here. So it says zero here, all right? There was $9.2 million that was added in this core last year in the TAFP bill. It was added as a technical coding, and it was added as a one-time transfer from GR to the senior services growth and development program fund. That's a mouthful. And because it was coded as a one-time transfer per budget instructions, we have to core reduce it. So you'll see that on page 361. There's the one-time core reduction here. But then, it's like a roller coaster here, but then on page 364 is the NDI where we were in the department request asking for that exact amount back.and you'll notice it's not being asked as a one-time, it's being asked to be ongoing so we don't have to keep doing this. But then OA was projecting that there would be increased income based on this statutory transfer that could be transferred, so that's why you'll see an increased amount of $10.6 million to appear in the governor's recommendation for that transfer. Page 367 is our next core. This is the Area Agencies on Aging, or our AAAs. The department request was $12.9 million GR, $39.3 million Fed, $21.6 million Other, for a total of $73.8 million, and those are the same numbers. I'm not going to repeat those for the governor request. This is where we distribute dollars that we receive from the federal government for the AAAs, including the expenditure of those senior services growth and development dollars that get transferred into the fund. It goes towards things like home-delivered meals or meals on wheels, congregate meals at senior centers, and other supportive services based on those local needs. Representative Christensen has a question. You may proceed. Thank you so much. Just real quick, do we know why we have so much lapse in the other fund and then federal? So the federal is the ARPA dollars. Those have essentially expired, so those you'll see some core reductions here later. The other is the Senior Services Growth and Development Program Fund, so that would have been FY22, was it? When did we have those other funds? No, it would have been, I think, 24. We received a larger amount of authority than what the transfer was. Those dollars were also not just for that given year, which is around $9 or $10 million, but they received kind of a rearage for what they should have been, based on the statute, received prior to that. So there was a big influx of senior services growth and development dollars, but the AAAs are kind of spending that over time. I will say it also just takes time and contracts to actually expend those dollars, so you'll see that start to level out as we move forward. Have you seen a decrease in some of our Meals on Wheels providers not being around, like just going out of business, not being able to provide these services, or have we seen an increase in more availability in this? I don't know if I've seen a change in the providers. Each AAA has a choice to procure and decide how they want to deliver Meals on Wheels or home-delivered meals. Some of them choose to make that meal in-house and do kind of a quick chill and deliver that. Some choose a larger provider. We also have AAAs that now produce their own and on a mass scale. And again, it costs vary depending on what model they choose, what model their local seniors prefer. So I don't know if I've seen a decrease in the providers, no. Okay, I also just want to make a quick comment, and I should have said this before. You guys have one of the best liaisons, Ben Terrell. If anyone's not worked with him, he is A+. I think he's messaged me back on weekends, and you will not get that from many people. So you guys have a real winner amongst your organization. If anyone has any questions, Ben is the guy. He's great, and I'm really thankful that he works for you guys because he makes your place. Yeah, I hope he's blushing behind me right now. Yeah, I forgot to mention that, so I wanted to make sure that got out. But don't let that go to his head too much, you know. So, you know, still give him those those zingers, okay? Representative Sharp, you may proceed. McGuire, thank you. I guess I won't have to say nice things about Ben now, so. But partially answering your question, Representative Christensen, that the AAAs and some of the rural areas are in terrible shape, and it's been somewhat from COVID. Certainly has made it where quite a few of them, well, there's three of them in the northeast corner, Pike, Monroe, and Lewis. Two of them have discontinued there in Pike and Monroe, and Lewis has been, which is my county, has been on pretty much on life support for with problems from COVID, and apparently the mothership, I call it AAA out of Kirksville, had this almost identical travails, you know, as far as money and paperwork and whatnot. So, I want to emphasize the crucial services that they provide in rural areas. When you get to counties that four or five, six thousand people, it's kind of like the only, some of these health services and different things, but the amount of paperwork to do it. And then the meals part. Are most of those rules from the feds or from you all? By that I mean congregate meals are reimbursed at a higher rate than the meals that they deliver. So, they are subject to federal Older Americans Act regulations, as well as state regulations on how those dollars can be used. But there are two different things happening there. So, you have meals that are in congregate, so the ones you go to your senior center, you sit around in a group, you know, and have that meal. There are also the home delivered meals. The home delivered meals has two different payers, okay? So, you have Medicaid home delivered meals, and then you have basically the non-Medicaid side that could be paid from Older Americans Act or whatever local funding source they're wanting to use. The Medicaid meal rate has been set, that's specified by the department and again with the General Assembly, at six dollars and 21 cents. That rate has not changed since fiscal year 22. Well, that's what, but the one that we're delivering, like our people that are out delivering the meals out in the country, sometimes 20 miles, that meal is a lower rate than the congregate. The congregate meal has really gone to very, COVID and whatnot has really just almost destroyed that number. Even at the senior centers, and the senior, these are not huge senior centers, you know, there might be a 30 apartment complex, but so that disparity in the reimbursement part has just, is killing these AAAs out in the country. And yeah, maybe they're, I know they're supposed to come up with some local money, but ours is probably 60, 80,000 dollars short in a 10,000 person county, and our director has been doing it for free for a year, because someone in the legislature begged him to do it. And he did take it, and Lewis County is still running, but the other two, you know, have quit business for right now. And it just seems like that if there's any discretion, and there seems to be some money rolling through here, and money has come from AAA at times in chunks, or we've also gotten at times where all of a sudden, well, we're not going to get paid this much, you know, so there's like a panic there, and then the next time there's some money comes out. So I'm just voicing that in some of these rural areas that whatever the problem is, and your liaison has been great to convey some of that, but also at times we run into where it's just, well, this is the way it is, and that's the way it's going to be. And I'm just saying it's a, that those places supply some services and some different things that I think resources could be used better to keep people in their house. Without being morbid about it, every day a person's in their house. It's a day they're not in the nursing home, and once they go to the nursing home, it's what, a couple hundred bucks a day for the most part that the feds will pay. So every day they're in their home is another day, and buys us for, as government workers, as government people, we're saying it's a terrific bargain to keep them people in their house, but a lot of times that's, some of them is the only contact that they have. So I'm just in budget here with some of the money unexpended, that whatever flexibility you can use to get money out to them rural areas could really, or wherever, could really be used. Because, like say that meal rate has, the food price has just exploded, and there's really hasn't really been any kind of adjustment on that. And anyway, I just wanted to voice that, in case you hadn't heard that before. Yeah, I will say that all of these dollars that we're talking about in this Corps, or the vast majority of them, again what you appropriate in GR, what we receive from the Federal Older Americans Act, and Senior Services Growth and Development, is distributed to the 10 area agencies on aging, pursuant to an interstate funding formula, which is approved by our federal government. It's driven on a bunch of different factors, demographics, number of seniors, you know, low income, but that is set. Then the local AAA, they have the discretion then to look at the needs within their service area, to identify how they want to use that, how they want to distribute that.allocation. So I hear what you're saying though is that we have a lot of high needs and you know the money that we as far as the money in this core we send it out. We're not holding anything back. It was actually one of the things that with COVID actually money was kind of needed because it was a special situation. It really upset the apple cart out in a lot of areas and and changed that dynamics and here we're the one out of Kirksville. If you've got ten of these places well I'd say they've got 20% of your area or more just that one because just because the people are sparse and it's a lot of area but it it's created quite a burden and like say the first I'll go back to the part that if people can stay in their homes any way in the world we can keep them people in their homes. Most of them they want to stay in their homes but a lot of it is getting getting a decent meal to them and and it's just it's really put the pinch on them so here in budget today I just want to re-emphasize like Representative Christensen mentioned that that the rural areas have taken some hits. Our problems our situation has been exasperated by some of these things so anyway I just want to bring that up to you directly. Thank you. Representative, I'm sorry, Representative Hine. Thank you Madam Chair. So kind of following in that pathway if we want to make an impact on that that meal price or the reimbursement for the meal is that an area that we look at Mohealthnet and in the Medicaid piece or do we look to your budget to say okay here's what we can do in this area because I'm hearing it's a Medicaid reimbursement issue and then we have the areas of aging in in your budget so can you help me connect the dots? So the home delivered the Medicaid home delivered meal rate known as meals on wheels sometimes that is paid in the HCBS core the agency directed model which is on page 343. So it is in your budget is a different area? That's correct. We cannot change rates without the authority of the legislature. Okay. Cannot change rates without the authority of us and I understand it is absolutely a rural issue. I am very sympathetic to that. We also have it in our areas I mean our community is I have senior citizens who are reliant on this food they divide it up so they can get their two meal meals a day you know and I think they're being stretched thin so if we can help you know address some of that rural need and those challenges and our state in general I would support that. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. Representative Black. Thank you Madam Chair. A few years ago we had this correction if I remember correctly with regard to the was called the foreign insurance fund and my understanding was that was a fairly significant amount of money that had been held up due to confusion and it was released and and it was I think that amount of money was to be distributed then over the amount of money that was released over two or three years but then that money would continue to flow and I was thinking that was supposed to solve all the problems of the triple A's so can you can you tell us what happened to that where that is and which fund that's in and yes so I think you're referring to kind of that the funding source behind why there is GR that gets transferred to the senior services growth and development program fund so that is that annual transfer we spoke about on page well you're not to see it on the NDI 359 and 364 so there is around I think we're reckon or yes the governor's recommending six ten point six million for next fiscal year again around nine or ten million gets transferred annually you are correct that there was about 22 million I'm thinking that was done the first which was kind of the those prior years where the transfer was not happening and so they do have those funds and yes they are utilizing that in a nut from what I understand in a number of ways that is what they're using to help address the increase in food costs also we all know that I spoke about our vacancy rates and the need for pay plans our triple A's you know also struggled to keep staff so they have supported increased wages with that funding half of those funds have to go towards senior center services per the statute and so they're also doing some capital improvements I know some of them had parking lots that were just graveled and people could not come into the meals they weren't ABA compliance some of the restrooms weren't up-to-date so again a lot of these senior centers particularly in remote areas and rural areas that hadn't seen an influx of cash should be able to do some of those changes to keep people coming so a lot of improvements capital improvements are going towards that so they're each triple-a kind of utilizes them slightly different depending on what their local needs are but they are going I think you're also just seeing an increased need for meals both congregate nutrition and it's just kind of an influx of costs thank you Sharon there are a few things too with that senior services growth and development that the the federal funds from Older Americans Act cannot go towards and so they use that like I said those senior center improvements there that so there's you can't just interchange those funds and say oh it's just more for the same thing they are utilized in different ways so if the senior centers want to use that money and I think what I heard you say was this this senior services growth and development transfer is in fact this insurance fund money is that right that's correct that so could the senior centers use that however they want to if they wanted to if they wanted to in fact reimburse themselves for the meal costs up to subsidize their meal cost expense could they do that with this money that could that would be an allowable use as long as they can justify that 50% of the of that what they received went towards senior center services that would be senior center services I mean Shira would you like to explain please so so the the funding goes to our AAA partners the the 10 area agencies on aging and then they have to come to a contractual agreement with those senior centers on what they're going to allow them to use the funds for so as Melanie was saying 50% of the funds that are received by each individual area agency on aging must then be given to the senior centers but the negotiation on how those funds are utilized is between the AAA themselves and the senior center that they're working with so if they want to use it for meal rates they can certainly have that conversation with their AAA partner to increase those consider increasing those rates or if they needed it for something else like a capital improvement like Melanie had had spoken to then then they would be able to utilize it for that can you tell us can you give us a breakdown how much of that money went to each senior center yes yeah we can provide that I don't have that right now but yes we will follow up with with you in the committee and provide that information and you want to know of the senior services growth and development fund oh we know what we give the AAAs we would have to follow up with the AAAs to identify how they utilize their dollars as far as senior centers are for what would you ask we will and so in terms of flexibility that the senior centers might have to spend it where they need to spend it you said some of them are spent on capital improvements some of this money is there where else do they have flexibility besides this money where else do they have flexibility use the funding how they might want to use the funding for their individual program I mean they this is the fund that they have the ability as long as it's meeting that section 192 385.4 requirements where they do have that ability the we talk about old federal older Americans Act dollars but it's not just like big one pot and use it as you need there are several sub parts this amount the feds say can go to congregate nutrition this amount can go to home delivery meals this amount has to go to family caregiver or supportive services so there so again there there are specific allowances of those different individual things and it is in in this senior services growth and development again as long as they're following the statute that they have a little bit more flexibility to spend based on what those local needs are and then I understand that there are contracts that the local areas have with transportation services Oats and where does their money come from so then does with the individual senior center in some little town have a contract with Oats or would that contract be with one of the ten central organization well all triple A's have the ability to to again as long as they're following the OAA federal regulationand state guidance on procurement and all that, they have the decision on how they want to deliver transportation services. Each little town? The AAA, the region. The 10 organizations? Yes, they, with their board, they're all managed by boards and then they have advisory boards as well, they determine how to how to contract or deliver themselves transportation services. Some may use OATS, not everybody does. Some of them do kind of a developed ride-share program, especially in some urban areas, so but again that is a piece of the Older Americans Act dollars if they receive local funding, some of their senior tax levies if they have that in that area, or utilize some of the general revenue dollars that they have in this core as well. Those are all decisions made by that regional AAA in trying to deliver services in accordance to what they believe their area needs are. Thanks, appreciate it. Representative Spark, I'm sorry, Sharpe. Thank you, since you all brought it up again, I'm glad because of this, that the disparity or unfairness of how money is distributed, because in this last three or three, couple, three years I've been involved with ours because I was stopped at the restaurant and they said we're gonna close, right? Do you know about that? And I said of course I did and so I've been intimately involved with them ever since, but in this travail that the disparity is that we can get a new building, we can get a new kitchen, we can get a new vehicle, but we can't get enough money to operate on, and that's the part that's just killing these areas because unless we buy all this stuff and sell it on Amazon or whatever, you know, which I know you're not supposed to suggest that, but anyway, I've never used them, but anyway. I heard nothing. But you see what I mean, though, is that it's created a great deal of where we've got bright shiny new stuff because we actually did get a new kitchen, but the other part, the actual operating expense, is the part that's just, just, I mean we've got a volunteer director for a year, which is normally out in our area $40,000 job, which is, you know, pretty cheap compared to a lot of them, but we're also expecting that person to be a $100,000 person down here to navigate all the regulations, to keep up with the meetings, to keep up with the feds, keep up with the state, and also, you know, so I'm just saying that the disparity of how that money seems to go out and maybe the, you know, you hate for our directors and them to have to go to this much training, but we really, sometimes, need a short course on telling us just what we can do and what we, and we almost need to be where we show the multiple boxes with the answers and we need to be told what the answers are, because you all kind of, a lot of them will know what our situation is, but we don't. I go to the ASCS office, fill out my farm papers, the girl behind the desk certainly knows the right answers to the thing, and if I do it wrong, we need to tear it up and start all over again, because a lot of times we just don't know how to navigate these things, and when we miss on them, we miss on a certain amount of money, it's just, it'll break them in places, and if they make a mistake, you know, a lot of times they're just out of business, and we got two of them up there now, and another one, you know, several of them, none of them are in real good shape out there, so. I think that's a challenge when you receive a lot of federal infusion of grants, we knew those weren't ongoing, and so I know that that's one of the things that the General Assembly is really keen on is, you know, being careful to use, we don't want to use one-time dollars for ongoing needs, and so I think that's why you saw with a lot of those federal dollars, even that 15 million for the home-delivered meal infrastructure that got those kitchens and all of that, again, it's that ongoing need, which is what you're talking about, but the federal dollars were not ongoing, and so that's that challenge, but yes, as far as the support that we're providing with the AAAs, you know, ongoing, there have been federal regulatory changes in how we do these programs, and we have been working with our AAA partners very closely, because we understand part of it is not just conveying to the AAAs, but helping the AAAs convey to their contracted partners what these new requirements are, and so you'll see that ongoing throughout this next year. Representative Hine touched on it, so if we wanted to change our meal rate, that instead of paying six bucks for a meal that's delivered, where would we change that at? You said you had to come to the legislature for it, well tell us where it's at. Well, where you change that is essentially in the HCBS agency-directed core, the in-home model, House Bill 10, 8, 9, 15, again, that all of those rates that are paid to providers, including AAAs, are dependent upon a rate schedule, but the legislature has the ability to determine what that rate is. But then there's also the non-Medicaid meal piece, so if you're going to increase it in Medicaid, they also support the non-Medicaid meals, which is in this AAA core, so if you want them to be able to pay equal, reimburse a center in the same way that you do a Medicaid or non-Medicaid, it would need to go into this core as well. Okay, well I expect your liaison to explain this all to me later. I'm sure he can do it. I'm sure you explained it well, but my comprehension is probably not as good as you can imagine, so it's about like college class here. I'm lost again, but I appreciate you bringing it up, but I think that's what a lot of us are asking, that yeah, if we need to change that, and I think we do, because whatever the inflation rates published on food, and a lot of ours is delivered by a Coles truck or whatever, I'll give a plug for them, you know, it's the cost of that has just gone, you know, or the cost of our basic meal is way higher than our reimbursement. I'm not saying we shouldn't put some local money in it, but it's getting, it's been a pretty big struggle out in the country, so. Understood. All right, moving on. Core changes, page 370. This is still for our AAA core. The first line is a hundred and eighty one million reduction. This and actually the third line, the thirty-one thousand, are ARPA grants that were specifically approved for long-term care ombudsman services, and we are expending those here in the next month, so that authority is coming out. There's also a thirty thousand core reallocation between E and EPD, it's kind of a technical thing, nothing's really changing as far as what we offer in services. There is a ten million dollar federal core reduction. Again, this is AAA ARPA expenditure authority. Again, we are expending all those dollars by the end of next month, so this authority is coming out. These are those one-time funds. Fifty seven thousand core reduction. Again, this is also that ombudsman ARPA authority, and then that 2.5 million, this is where it's coming out of the AAAs and going into those non-Medicaid service core, just to reflect that the AAAs aren't providing this service and haven't for a very long time. Page 373. This is our next new decision item. This is on the Older Americans Act authority. Essentially, this is associated with a supplemental of 14 million dollars. This is not additional federal cash. We're not asking for any more funds. We're asking for the authority to spend the dollars that have already come down to the state. Essentially, what has happened is there was a lot of those one-time dollars that came in through various COVID buckets, and the AAA spent in a different pattern than we were anticipating, which means that we need to have more, again, federal authority. I need more checks in my checkbook. I don't need more cash in my bank account. So this will allow them to expend the dollars that have already come to us, in which they are trying to continue the services. Oh, we're requesting 4 million federal. I think I said that. Representative Cabello. To inquire. Proceed. Thanks for that explanation of more checks in the checkbook than no money in the account, because that makes a lot of sense a lot of times when we don't understand. And I'm sorry, I was out for a little bit and I just caught up, but I'm gonna go back one page to 367 and 368, and I may be in the wrong place, but the word ombudsman come up and that caught my attention. And then I also look at unexpended funds and there's millions and millions of dollars, and ombudsman is way underfunded, if it's, I'm correct, if I'm getting it right, and I believe I am. So I don't know if this is where this comes from or not, I just heard that word associated here. Ombudsman funding does flow through our AAAs. We have the state ombudsman in our office, but then monitors and works with regional coordinators throughout all of the, throughout the state. That lapse that you see herethose federal dollars was all ARPA dollars that was directed to the AAAs. There was some specific ombudsman ARPA as well. Again, we distribute funding as it's awarded to us and then the AAA has the discretion in how, as long as it meets those federal requirements of the use of that fund, of how much, or if any, they're going to give to the ombudsman program. Same thing with those other dollars there, that 19 million, that's the senior services growth and development program funds. I believe in my communication with our state ombudsman that unfortunately the AAAs did not have the ability to utilize any of that funding source for the ombudsman program because they are trying to support the increased meal wages, infrastructure costs, and so I think we've actually asked that question to all of them and unfortunately it's not that that funding couldn't go to the ombudsman, but the AAAs have not been in a position to utilize that for them. Okay, thank you. Oh, you may proceed. Okay, I think we're on page three. I'm on an NDI. I'm still on the NDI. So yes, we are requesting four million dollars to allow AAAs to continue to support their existing functions. The next item is page 376. This is the core for the AAA meal production funding. Again, this is zero. These were some regular COVID FMAP dollars that the department received specifically to enable AAAs to build out their infrastructure for the home delivered meals program to help sustain, you know, during emergency times and essentially what we got out of this was there are two multi-purpose senior centers up in northern Missouri. We have existing infrastructure supporting a AAA produced meal, conveyor belts, delivery systems, freezers, again to be able to withstand any kind of disruption in the future to make sure that seniors can continue to receive those home-delivered meals. That was 15 million dollars and you'll see that that or no I guess I'm sorry it was one point it was originally 15.1 we did it kind of re-approve about 1.2 million dollars. Our AAAs are on track to expend that funding so therefore we core reduced it per budget instructions and believe that that will be again funding a respite provider to come in and provide that care to give that primary caregiver some relief as well as assistive technology that can help support an individual to remain in their home and to support that caregiver. Page 387 is our next core. This is the senior independent living programs. This is 400,000 GR. There are no court changes between the department and GovREC. This supports essentially aging in place in four different communities across the state. It helps provide to make sure the services are needed to help those individuals in their natural home. The locations are in Kansas City, Jennings, Columbia, as well as Creve Corps. The next core is on page 392. This is the naturalization assistance program. This is 200,000 GR. There are no court changes between the department and Governor's recommendation. This supports individuals who are residing here in Missouri legally and assist them with if they are struggling to achieve the citizenship test, help them towards that citizenship to essentially relieve the financial burden of the state because then after five years of legally residing here in Missouri, getting that citizenship test, they can then qualify for federal benefits. What is the, this seems to be pretty consistent on the expenditure. You look back at the past three years, so I'm, I mean I can't imagine it's like a per cost per individual because surely there's not the same amount every year, year after year, but maybe there is. Or is this a vendor, like do we just grant this money out to somebody, and if so who is that? Yes, it is Monarch. They are now formally known as the Bilingual International Assistance Services, BIAS, and so let me, again this would all be in your program book, but let me try to, I made some notes. Yeah, Monarch Immigrant Services, formerly known as Bilingual International Assistance Services, and so again these go for individuals. As far as how it's paid per individual, I'm not entirely sure. There is a an annual report that is delivered to the General Assembly of how these dollars are utilized year over year. It appears that in the last fiscal year there were 251 individuals that were enrolled in the program. Is this a statewide initiative, do you know? I believe, I don't think it is limited, but I know Monarch is based in St. Louis. Okay, all right, thank you for that information. Thank you. And with that, that concludes the presentation from DSDS. I'm going to now turn it over to our Division of Regulation and Licensure with Mr. Steve Bolin. Before they come up, and I think for maybe certain individuals this may be helpful, I don't think we've had a break in some time, so let's just take five minutes and come back here at, we'll say 145, a little bit more than five minutes maybe, and just give people a break and stand up, and then we'll come back and we'll finish up the book. Thank you. We'll stand at ease for five minutes.Thank you, and we'll get it submitted to you tomorrow, okay? Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We will come back to order here. We will continue now with the division of regulation and licensure. Please introduce yourself and continue with your presentation. Thank you. Thank you. To my right is Haroon Kumar. He is the fiscal manager for the division. Our division is responsible for regulation and licensure facilities across Missouri that provides a wide variety of health services. The section for long-term care inspects licenses and investigates 1186 long-term care facilities including 514 that are certified by the department of mental health services. They also oversee the certified nurse assistant training program. The section for health standards and licenses expects and investigates 162 hospitals across the state that does exclude the department of mental health services and the VA hospitals. We have a licensure responsibility for several thousand outpatient service providers including ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories, physical therapy, mammography and diagnostic imaging equipment. Home health services is responsible for all of those services. The section for long-term care inspects licenses and investigates 162 hospitals across the state that does exclude the department of mental health services and the VA hospitals. We have a licensure responsibility for several thousand outpatient services including home health care hospice and stage renal disease providers. The bureau of emergency medical services. We license those including both air ambulances and ground transport. We oversee the licensing of about 19,000 emergency medical technicians and paramedics. The bureau of narcotics and dangerous drugs ensures the safe and legal handling and distribution of controlled substances by registered persons and businesses that manufacture, distribute or dispense controlled substances. The section for long-term care inspects licenses and investigates 162 hospitals across the state that does exclude the department of mental health services and paramedics. We license those including both air ambulances and ground transport. The bureau of emergency medical services ensures the safe and legal handling and distribution of controlled substances by registered persons and businesses that manufacture, distribute or dispense controlled substances. We are also responsible for facilitating the board of nursing home administrators, the family care safety registry, the time critical diagnosis program, certificate of need program and the supplemental health care staffing agency program. So if you would please turn to page 397, you will see the governor's recommendation for the division's core. So the governor has recommended $39.6 million for the certification of maternal medical support program. If you would please turn to page 401. On page 401 you will see the governor has recommended a partial reduction for the certified nursing assistant program. It's a reduction of 500,000. The remaining 1 million that was originally proposed will be used to fund scholarships for students and instructors enrolled in the program. If you would please turn to page 405. On page 405 you will see a new decision item. It's for the prescribed pediatric care program. The request is for one FTE. You heard us talk about that a little bit ago with the department of senior and disability services for the new prescribed pediatric care program. This is the request for the staff to perform the licensing and inspection of these programs to ensure that the care that is being provided to these medically frail children is being performed within established standards. This is not new funding. There is an offset in the division.of senior and disability services to help fund this FTE the offset can be seen on page 307 of the budget book. Representative DeHausman you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank You Mr. Chair um how long would Desi's I'm sorry how long would a Desi child care facility have to be licensed prior to applying for the PPC licensure? We haven't licensed any yet so we're waiting for the requirement because I remember legislation. We can get back to you on that we haven't licensed any of this so there's there's several of them out there we're in the process of getting this developed but we'll get an answer for you on that. Great thank you. You're welcome. Please turn to page 409. On page 409 you will see a new decision item for the central office medical review unit also known as Comberoo to allow the unit to contract with two RNs for processing applications by long-term care facilities to be reimbursed for care provided under Medicaid. In 2023 the unit began experiencing some pretty significant volume growth for requests for care. Many of your requests were for residents with very complex medical conditions to include behavioral health. The increase in volume combined with the time it took to recruit review these applications resulted in a backlog of about 6,000 applications in an average time to process of about 90 days. We started getting a fair number of complaints from the long-term care facilities because of delays in reimbursement for the care they were providing. So we started taking a look at what was going on initially we applied overtime and assigned staff from other areas to help get the backlog down and shorten the time to get these applications processed. In time we identified those things that we could implement that were basically process improvement to help facilitate and make the whole process better and at this point as of last week we actually have a average volume of about 400 to 700 per week. Our backlog runs anywhere from 200 to 400 but we generally clear most of those within a seven day period which is really good for where we want to be. However we are still using additional staff and overtime to help cover that so that we don't get any farther behind and that we don't delay the reimbursement any further. The total time that's being used is about the equivalent of two FTEs. The staff that are helping in this area it's really good for the residents and for the facilities but it delays the work they do in their home departments or divisions so we really want to make this request for the utilization so that we can continue to function at a high level for their long-term care facilities and get this done quickly but also run the rest of our sections as as expected. Please turn to page 512 on page 512 or I'm sorry 412 or 12. On page 412 you'll see a new decision item for the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs. Last year's budget you graciously appropriated us 1.7 million dollars for the Bureau to obtain a new database. Their existing databases is old and in computer time a lot of folks will say old is 18 months. Our system is over a 10 years old and it is functioning barely. We need to replace this database. The Bureau working with our IT division has been working on the the RFP to replace it. They believe they've identified a vendor but because of all the security requirements of cybersecurity and all the things that are required in a large database of this type we have not yet completed the RFP yet and we do not know if it will be done before the end of the fiscal year so this is a request to carry the funds over to the next year so that we continue to work to get this done. Would you need it I mean it sounds like it might actually be done this year maybe not but it'll for sure be done next year? That's our goal. And it's not a subscription service it's like once you build it out you don't have to do it again? That is correct. Okay so the governor's recommended this is ongoing funding but I mean it probably at some point it's just one time. Correct. Needed on a one-time basis. Okay thank you. You're welcome. Please turn to page 415. On page 415 you'll see a new decision item for the supplemental health care staffing agency program. In this year's budget we had been granted funding of approximately $100,000 to obtain a database for the program's functions, an appropriate database. We are using a system that's available to us but is not as functioning as we need it or as what the department expectations are. And the program has not yet identified a replacement product yet. Again this is not a request for additional funding this is a request to carry these funds over for another year to allow the division to try to find an appropriate placement for this this database. Please turn to page 418. On 418 you will see the governor's recommendation for the time-critical diagnosis program. It is for 804,007 FTEs. Please turn to page 423. On page 423 you will see the governor's recommending 1.4 million for the quality improvement program for Missouri, also known as QWIPMO. QWIPMO is a cooperative service between the department and the University of Missouri Sinclair School of Nursing to provide education and training, share best practices, and improve care delivery at long-term facilities to help them improve outcomes for the residents. And just as a measure last year we did about 823 supports of our requests for training at the long-term care facilities and this year so far we've done about 322 so it's a very active program and providing a lot of help for these long-term facilities to help get better at how they provide the care. This completes the governor's recommendation for the division. I'm happy to answer any questions anyone has. Seeing none, thank you for being with us today. Yes, yes sir. Thank you for allowing me to present the recommendations. I would like to introduce Amy Moore who is the director for the Division of Cannabis Regulation to present their regulations. Thank you all. All right, good afternoon. Amy Moore. I am the director of the Division of Cannabis Regulation and I have my colleague here with me. Would you like to introduce yourself? I'm Craig Schneeters. I'm the chief of operational support and Division of Cannabis Regulation. Okay, so I do like to start with just a little bit of history and an overview of the funds that we utilize since they're pretty unique. So first, as you all are probably familiar with, Article 14 Section 1 of the Missouri Constitution concerning access to medical marijuana was voted into law on November 6 of 2018 and became effective shortly after December 6, 2018. In response, the department established the Section for Medical Marijuana Regulation to implement the constitutional provisions. So then, on November 8th of 2022, a new law was passed by the voters that adjusted Section 1 of Article 14 and added a new Section 2 for the regulation of adult non-medical use of marijuana. In order to efficiently implement this law and administer both the medical and adult use cannabis programs, the department established a new Division of Cannabis Regulation. The division operates as one combined cannabis organization overseeing now 498 licensed cannabis facilities that serve both the medical and the adult use markets. The medical and adult use programs are fee and tax based programs. So the medical program fees, along with a 4% tax on retail medical sales, are deposited in the Veterans Health and Care Fund, which I'll refer to as the Veterans Fund, and the adult use program fees, along with a 6% tax on retail adult use sales, are deposited into the Veterans Health and Community Reinvestment Fund, which I'll refer to as the Reinvestment Fund. So money is distributed from the Veterans Fund, the medical fund, as follows. So first, the Department of Revenue may retain up to 2% of the collected taxes for its collection costs, and then a portion goes to the department for an amount necessary to cover operations, and then after that, the full remainder goes to the Missouri Veterans Commission. Then money is distributed from the Reinvestment Fund, similarly with different beneficiaries. So again, the Department of Revenue may retain up to 2% of collected taxes for its collection costs, and then a portion goes to the department for an amount necessary to cover operations. In addition to that, government entities tasked with certain expungement costs that are laid out in Article 14, they receive appropriations for their expenses and those efforts, and then finally, all remaining funds are distributed in equal thirds to the Missouri Veterans Commission, the Department of Health for Substance Use Disorder grants that you heard about earlier, and the Public Defender System. So per Article 14, regulation of cannabis exists for public health and for public safety. So we as a department are to control the commercial production and distribution of marijuana through licensure and regulation of the businesses involved, and we are to do it all while protecting public health. So even more specifically, taking directly from the law, it says that what we're doing contributes to removing the commercial production and distribution of marijuana from the illicit market, preventing the distribution of marijuanato persons under 21 years of age, preventing the diversion of marijuana to illicit markets, protecting public health by ensuring the safety of marijuana and products containing marijuana, and ensuring the security of marijuana facilities. So while what we do contributes to all of those goals, some of them are more directly related to our explicit authority, especially preventing diversion of marijuana to the illicit market and the reverse of that as well, preventing inversion of illicit product into the regulated market, and then also protection of public health by ensuring the safety of marijuana products. Our rules are designed with those goals in mind, primarily, and we're happy to answer any questions about that or anything else as I go along. So let's turn to the budget now. First, to set the big picture, the combined budget amounts that I'll be covering today, including the Division of Cannabis Regulation Operations, as well as those fund transfers to all those beneficiaries, is $86,979,690. So now I'll go through all of the components that go into that total number. So we'll start- Before we get into your core on 428, which I assume is where you're going, I think Representative Owen has an inquiry, and we'll go ahead and take that, Representative Owen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Out of respect to the Director, she and I had a conversation after I made it clear I was not particularly happy with the makeup of this micro program, and we discussed a little about, and it has been a while since we visited, she talked a little about her progress. My feeling is we still got a lot more to go. She's agreed to visit. And so we're going to carry that discussion on later. So when I didn't say anything about it here, I thought, well, I'm leaving an impression that I didn't want to leave. I wanted everyone to be aware, whether they're here or listening online, that we have met, we have discussed the issues that I have, and we have discussed about getting together later and following up on that, and I just didn't want to leave it, like I say, without making those comments. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right, thank you. Okay, so we can go to page 428. So on this page, you'll see our core decision item for adult-use cannabis. The Governor recommends 14,363,312 with 133 FTE and a flexibility request of 10%. The FTE here are positions we use to support the administration of the adult-use program, such as oversight of comprehensive facilities and microbusinesses. We currently have 421 active comprehensive facilities and 97 microbusiness facilities. You will see one reallocation in this core on page 431. This is moving an FTE from the Division of Cannabis Regulation to the Division of Community and Public Health. This is a position that was always appropriated for the administration of that Substance Use Disorder Grant Program. So this reallocation is moving the FTE to where it should have appeared in the budget. Okay, so we can move to page 435. The core decision item that you see here is for medical cannabis. The Governor recommends 8,957,793 with 23.5 FTE and a flexibility request of 10%. So the FTE here are positions that we still need to conduct medical-only responsibilities, so that would be such as processing applications for patients and overseeing the few facilities that are still registered as medical-only. We have nine of those right now. You'll see one reallocation in this core on page 438. This is moving some E&E to the Division of Administration. So similar to the reallocation I mentioned earlier, this money was always appropriated for use by the Division of Administration, and I think there was some discussion from their end earlier about how that is utilized. This is for the support of the Division of Cannabis Regulation as it does for all other divisions in DHSS, and this is ensuring our budget reflects the actual intended usage of these funds. Okay, so then we'll be moving to page 442, and I'll talk about our first transfer to beneficiaries here. So here we have the Adult Use Cannabis Transfer core decision item. This is $27,295,857 from the reinvestment fund to the beneficiaries of that fund, and those were, again, the Veterans Commission, the Public Defender System, and the Substance Use Disorder Grants. So good to be aware there is a supplemental request associated with this transfer, which would be $35,045,952 if approved, there's also an NDI associated with this transfer, which I'll cover next. So this core amount plus the supplemental and the NDI, they're all requested in order to ensure that we continue to transfer all taxes and fees not necessary for DHSS regulatory operations or those expungement costs I mentioned, and that is all as Article 14 intended, and this is to ensure that we are able to transfer that as soon as we know that we have it. In the outline you gave of the program and the history, obviously, as you noted, the medical program came first, and then the adult use was layered on. And again, I don't think that it needs to be said, but just to be clear that I don't think it was ever at the request of the department that the constitutional amendment came about or that it was necessarily placed with DHSS. And you were hired after the amendment was passed, correct? Like you weren't part of the Department of Health prior to, I guess it was the medical program is what was initially. That's correct. I started shortly after that initial Section 1 passed into law. So the medical program, at least, and I'm not really asking to get an answer to this question, but at least ostensibly, and even in its name, right? Like there's medicinal benefits, at least claimed. I don't know if that's totally settled or maybe there's people that dispute that, but at least ostensibly there's a healthcare-related piece to that that is at least claimed. Not necessarily true, it would seem to me, with the adult use. So I'm just curious, is there an official position of the Department of Health, and I don't know if there is, or your division, or do you all not take a position but the department does? Does adult use cannabis promote and enhance public health in Missouri? Does the department have a position on that? Perhaps my chief medical officer could help me with that. So your division doesn't, if I take it. You all just, you're regulating, you're administering the constitutional provisions. I suppose I could contribute that but our regulatory function is definitely designed, per the law, to protect public health in many ways. So for instance, there's required testing to ensure that the products coming out of our regulated program are as safe as they can be with what we know about regulating cannabis. There are also public health protection measures in the requirements for packaging and labeling to ensure that what's on the packaging and the labels is. Right, but that doesn't speak to consumption and whether that's good or bad. And I mean, I don't mean to put you in this awkward position, you as in the department, although it seems like you're already there. And again, I get that you didn't ask for this but like, is marijuana, is it the same as tobacco? We talked about tobacco cessation. Is it less harmful, is it more harmful? And again, you seem to the extent, and I assume this conversation has been had at some point, maybe not, maybe more than once, maybe quite often, maybe not so much. But it does seem to me there's this, we're trying to promote public health and to the extent if this doesn't do that, but yet we're the ones regulating it. So it kind of puts you at, seems to me, an interesting position. I don't know, does the department have a position on it or are you just agnostic to the whole deal? My name is Dr. Heidi Miller. I'm the Chief Medical Officer for the Department of Health and Senior Services. And you are correct, we have two responsibilities within this department to regulate both the adult and medical cannabis, but also to protect the public health of Missourians. And so our official stance is to continue to follow the science on this, both the potential therapeutic benefits of cannabis as well as the risks of cannabis. And as you know, research on cannabis in humans was intentionally suppressed for decades. So we are following the research in order to figure out how to advise the public. Now, the use of cannabis has increased markedly. And we are aware of that and we are framing our messaging around those facts that are already established, that pregnant moms, breastfeeding moms, and children should not be using these substances and we should be protecting them from exposure to them. We're also following potential benefits and negative consequences for other populations as well as risky behaviors. So we wanna make sure that if cannabis is offered on the market, that it is free of contaminants and that it's actually containing the amount of cannabis that it says that it is.containing and likewise making the public aware that they can be educated on this to make choices for themselves about the risks and potential benefits of cannabis. Now one thing that concerns our department is in focusing on preventive care and primary care we know that in the state of Missouri over 30% of people don't have a usual place of care so we want to be very sensitive to make sure that people are not self-medicating with cannabis when in fact they need comprehensive preventive health services. Thank you so if I'm hearing you correctly you're willing to say at least for certain populations that adult use is not conducive to health? Correct for pregnant moms, breastfeeding moms and children and we're trying to get that messaging out because there has been some contradictory messaging in that but we should also say that we are following the evidence you know five years from now ten years from now is it possible that there would be like a limited indication for those subpopulations it's possible like for example for children who are dying of cancer sometimes cannabis is used for palliative care for children with some rare refractory. Well again I'm just talking about the adult use program not the medical program so under the adult use program of course it wouldn't be legal for children so just the adult use but that potentially could include pregnant mothers but I guess you're speaking even on the medicinal side of things you think that the the risks outweigh any potential benefits I guess and it's specifically just staying with with adult use you you're not ready or willing or able to go so far as to say just as a blanket it's just too not not far enough along to say just for everyone it's it's more harmful than potentially helpful or it is harmful. Yes it would be too early and too presumptive. So it is different than tobacco in that sense that I think correct me if you're wrong you are comfortable in saying that tobacco is like it's just not good. Tobacco is 100% harmful. Okay I just never asked a question curious appreciate the conversation. No but you point out when you juxtapose the two cannabis is this is really tricky there are a number of dangers associated with it and yet there's some potential for therapeutic benefits so balancing that has been really hard but we are trying to follow the science and one of the ways that our department is to handle that is that we have a division of cannabis regulation that handles the regulation and we have a division of community and public health that is handling the public health and you know there's communication but we are really taking those two tasks very seriously and following the science for each of them. Thank you representative Black you have a question comment on this please proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair yeah we've covered thank you chairman for the inquiry and we've covered some of this ground in our task force on substance abuse and exactly the same subject matters and one question that was raised is we know that under the Constitution as it currently exists that apparently state has no ability to regulate the concentration of THC in the products is that correct? That is correct. So we don't have that tool in our toolbox if you wanted to use that term to be able to prevent public health problems we also know that concentrations of THC in the products are significantly greater than they were in the 70s. Might that be true? Also true. So if we wanted to try to regulate it from a concentration perspective we don't have the ability under the Constitution exists now but so then that comes to the question what can we do with these public health problems that the doctor just addressed nursing women there's evidence appearing that it's high concentration of marijuana should it get in the hands of young people which is prohibited is a can create significant problems and it seems to me that that would be within the scope of your authority as trying to prevent minors from having access to the product but I believe the doctor told us in our task force hearings that kind of what she said today the department's we asked if there was a recommendation that might be forthcoming with regard to some of these issues and I believe the testimony was the studies aren't complete we're not ready to do that yet with regard to what the legislature might be able to do or willing to do or should do based on recommendation recommendations from department with regard to controlling access to persons that should not have access particularly is that basically correct doctor do I remember that correctly that department at this point is not ready to offer recommendations as to what legislation or other actions might be taken with regard to some of these problematic behaviors I would have to defer to our legislative liaison and our department as a whole in our director as well but I can share your concern that some of the percentages of the 1960s and 70s of cannabis the THC was about two to three percent usually less than five percent now twenty to thirty percent is regularly available and then there's something called dabbing which includes percentages upwards of eighty to ninety percent and so our Department of Community and Public Health is working hard to educate folks about that dramatic Delta that huge difference and the higher the concentration it affects everyone it increases risk for cannabis use disorder but it that risk for cannabis use disorder as the concentration goes up has been shown to affect adolescents far more so we we are working on that educational campaign right and so we'll be on educational campaign yeah I don't see any money in the budget in the Division of Public Health or anywhere to address enforcement and into any degree than is already there with regard to keeping these large concentrations out of the hands of folks that shouldn't be having it or is that correct you not just the education I'm talking about regulation I'm talking about enforcement of the existing law but before yeah and I hate to ask somebody else to come up if neither of you know the answer to that but I don't see in the budget but the other thing is is a related issue that maybe we can get to that I think is also a problem that I guess probably wouldn't be in the Division of Cannabis regulation but it's this problem of these under related hemp products that are are are problematic and and at least to some degree at least because they are completely unregulated governor tried to offer a last our last governor tried to offer a executive order which I believe is not particularly effective and so is there and I realize this is there any money in the budget or any recommendation from the department with regard to dealing with with that issue the under unregulated hemp products I'm sorry director I realize it's outside your scope it might be in the doctor's scope I would defer to our leadership there's not money or regulation that I'm aware of however to level set I just want to clarify that I share your concern so hemp derived cannabinoids are cannabinoids that are chemically converted from hemp and they have never been tested in human beings I think some of you have heard of the term Delta 8 but there are actually 26 different compounds that air included in those hemp derived cannabinoids they've been untested they are potentially contaminated even when products are sold we don't even know if the product can what they contain what their concentration is and we need to make sure that at minimum we protect children from consuming that and this is something that I know states across this the nation are struggling with so you use the word can I'm drawing so I would presume that it's possible that regulation could come within the the Department of Cannabis regulation would you think that would be reasonable it would be possible it would of course depend on what the legislative proposal is whether it was something that the legislature desires us to handle or someone else yeah okay I think those are my questions mr. chair thank you seeing no further questions please proceed okay so I believe we wrapped up the adult use cannabis transfer and we'd be going to page 447 for our one new decision item this is the adult use revenue transfer that is associated with the adult use cannabis transfer I just discussed so the governor recommends twenty three million three hundred and sixty two thousand seven hundred and twenty eight to transfer from the reinvestment fund that's the adult use fund to those same beneficiaries mentioned before veterans public defender and substance use disorder grants so as mentioned this is in addition to that adult use cannabis transfer and also in addition to the supplemental request that I mentioned so if you add all three of those together the FY 26 core the NDI and the FY 25 supplemental we're looking at a total new transfer authority from the adult use program of eighty five million seven hundred and four thousand five hundred and thirty sevenOkay, so then to page 450. The governor recommends a $13 million transfer from the Veterans Health and Care Fund to the Veterans Commission, which would be to transfer funds generated from the medical program after program operation expenditures. So as discussed last year, we anticipated a significant reduction in the amount of funds available to transfer from the medical program after the adult use program was established, and that will likely play out this year. So while the request is for the same amount of appropriation this year, it's important to understand that we do not anticipate being able to transfer the full amount this year for the first time. This is due to reduction in patient numbers and the associated reduction in medical program revenues. Thankfully, as mentioned last year, and I think this year as well, the amounts going to veterans from the adult use fund will replace and even eclipse what we've been able to provide historically for veterans from the medical program. But again, it's just important to understand that that $13 million amount for the first time we don't anticipate actually having the cash to make that full transfer this year. Any questions about that? Okay. So that's actually the end of my presentation, and I believe I'm also wrapping up for the department. So any last words? Any other questions from members of the committee? I don't think we're anticipating any other testimony today. Okay. So tomorrow we will begin again at 8.15 in the morning with public defenders. We're circling back to that conversation. Other than that, seeing no further business before the committee, the Budget Committee now stands adjourned.