for as well. Representatives Fogel, Black, Boggs, Brown, Chappell, Christensen, Crossley, Cupps, Douglas, Haussmann, Hine, Calderlow, Kimball, Lewis, Martin, Mayhew, Murray, Owen, Prouty, Riggs, Sharp, Steinhoff, Steinmeier, Taylor, Dell, Taylor, Tim, Vernetti, Voss, Warwick, Young. Good morning, everyone, and we'll begin today with the Office of Lieutenant Governor and his fiscal year 2026 budget request. Governor Walsh, thank you for being here this morning. We welcome you to make any introductory comments if you have them, and if we have any inquiries of a general nature, we'll take those, and otherwise, we'll get into the book as soon as you're ready. And a reminder for everyone today, of course, we'll get to the Department of Health and Senior Services following the Lieutenant Governor's Office. Anyone who is to testify today needs to introduce themselves, use the microphone, and provide a witness form to the committee. So, Lieutenant Governor, whenever you're ready, please begin. Thank you, Chairman Dietman. As many of you know, those who haven't met me, I'm David Weisinger, your new Lieutenant Governor, so we just took office last month. We hired a great team, including Katie Ashcroft, our Chief of Staff, who's sitting next to me, and we're also joined by Michael Donovan, who's with the Missouri Arts Council, and Ashley Beard-Fosnau, who's with the Executive Director of the Missouri Humanities Council. In our budget this year, it covers several components to support our work through the Capitol Office and the Missouri Arts Council. The Governor's recommendation, or our Governor's recommendation for our core budget remains the same as it was funded in 2025, which supports our Capitol staff, has worked on to advocate for the seniors and veterans in Missouri. I also want to highlight the Buy Missouri program, which is administered by our office. It's designed to promote Missouri manufacturers and goods made in Missouri. We have more than 600 Missouri businesses that are now members of the program, and we will be hosting a Buy Missouri Day at the Capitol on April 23rd in the Capitol Rotunda, so if any of you'd like to join us, April 23rd, we're going to have a Buy Missouri program. Really the core budget, we took over for our current Governor, Mike Kehoe, and he had submitted what you're going to see in the budget. We've reviewed it and thought it looked great as to the core budget. There are two new decision items related to state pay. The first was referenced by the Governor in the State of the State, and it provides for a 1% salary increase for every two years of continuous state service. The second new decision item is also related to the pay plan, and it ensures all funds have resources to cover the proposed salary increase. With that said, I will open it up to any questions. Representative Riggs, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the class of 79, welcome to the House. By the way, Representative Riggs is from Hannibal, Missouri, my hometown, so he and I have known one another quite a while, and I know his brother, too. I hope you like your sophomore yearbook picture. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representative Fogle, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. I do thank you. It's of the general nature, so I think I'll begin now. Welcome. Good to see you guys. I don't typically like to do this, but I do have a question about your social media account. Of course, there's no place in the budget that innately covers the cost of any work that you do on social media, but when I read it, it upset me so much that I felt the need to bring it up today, and I'm sure you will. You might not know what I'm referring to, but I'm referring specifically to the language used about people who live in Missouri who are Muslim, and I don't even really want to read the language out loud because I find it to be so upsetting. My question is, in 2022, the Missouri Commission on Human Rights offered guidance to the state about the way that we should interact and welcome refugees that call Missouri home. When I read your social media tweet related to Muslims in this state, I do not find it to be welcoming, accepting, or language that's reflective of the Missouri that I know and love. Again, I know there's not a specific place in the budget, but I do think that it's fair to ask oversight questions when we have statewide office holders in front of us. I guess my question to you is, when we tweet things like, wonder how many more mentally unstable Muslims are roaming the streets of Missouri, do you find that to be language and a narrative that is reflective of the spirit that Missouri has towards refugees who now call Missouri home, and did so in a way that our government invited and welcomed them to this state? Well, I appreciate the question, Representative Fogel. I ran on my main campaign piece, and I think every statewide office holder, was about illegal immigration. I think we've got a new president based upon these illegals. You've got a new lieutenant governor based upon what we've done with these illegals. So you and I just, frankly, may philosophically agree with that. In what I'm reading, your comments were specifically related to individuals resettled by the International Institute of St. Louis, or at least that was a part of this. Which from my understanding, the International Institute offers resettlement services to people who are here legally, not illegally. So I take your comments to be questioning how many mentally unstable people we have in this state who happen to be Muslim, but are here under a legal premise. So do you have any comments to that? Absolutely. I don't think that gentleman you've referenced was properly vetted. My guess is there are a number of other people probably living in Missouri and throughout this country that haven't been properly vetted. Do you see how I could have concerns about that language generalizing the Muslim faith and people who are of Muslim faith feeling safe and welcomed in this state? If we replaced that word with Christian, I think a lot of people in this room would be inflamed. I know I would. I guess my ask is that when we're using a public platform to be intentional about the language that we use, and I know you and I are going to fundamentally disagree on immigration in the state of Missouri, but I've had constituents reach out who are Muslim who were very offended by those words, and I feel it was my duty to bring it up today. Well I appreciate you bringing it up, Representative. Okay. Thank you. Representative Seinhoff, do you have something you'd like to... I don't want to be out of turn. Are you going to go through the pages of the book? Okay. Really, the core budget, frankly, is the same as last year. I guess my preference would be if you have questions, I'd be happy to answer any questions. We just reviewed what Governor Kehoe had prepared, and frankly, it just stood out to us. I do have... Did I wait then? I can wait until the item comes up. You can go through the rest as well. Let me ask you, did you have any questions about the core budget prior to these? No. Okay. Okay, thank you. All right. So that's the core budget. We also... Again, I'm new to this, these one-offers, so we have been asked, and Chairman Deaton and I have spoken about this, some of these one-offers, I think they're looking for a place to put, frankly, in a budget. So, for example, the Truman Presidential Library has been stuck in our budget for the amount of $2 million. There are a couple other one-offers. I think Representative Taylor has approached us about the St. Louis Symphony flowing through our budget. It requires my blessing, I guess, to have that done. I would probably defer to Governor Kehoe. I think he's done it in the past. My inclination at this time, I really don't have much heartburn over that being done. We also have the Missouri Arts Council. I don't know if you had any questions about the Missouri Arts Council. Governor Walsinger, if we could, maybe I think would be helpful, and I'm fine with dispensing with your core budget seat as it's the same, and it's relatively small, people can flip to it right here as we sit, if anybody's got any questions about that, we can go to those. But you might, if you could just flip to your NDIs and describe those briefly, and we'll kind of take those one at a time, and if anybody has a question on those, so that would start with on page two, which you referenced, which is the Governor's Pay Plan. That's the same for all the, I mean, we've seen that time and time again. I don't know if there's necessarily any questions about that. You do have a NDI for a pay plan fund pickup on page five. I'm not sure if you're familiar with the, and again, I realize that your predecessor might have passed that on. I think that's for the Missouri Arts Council. Well, actually, this is the Governor's recommendation. It wasn't a department request. So I don't know if you have any information on that, or if you'd like the folks from the Arts Council to come up and provide an explanation on that pay plan fund pickup. Would it be appropriate to ask the folks from the Arts Council to come forward? Sure, if you have questions on it. Michael Donovan, do you want to come up here and? Yeah, if there's another microphone up.here well if you can yes and thank you for being with us today and if you have a brief explanation as to the reason for the need is to the pay plan pickup thank you pay plan pickup I assume as part of the governor's recommendation of the overall budget for the increased funding for state employees who have been at the state up to 20 years or yeah up to 20 years for an increased pay because we did not ask for a pay plan increase we don't have anything in that budget so would that I assume that was in reference to his recommendation there are employees of the Missouri Arts Council right we're all state employees and that are paid out of the Missouri Arts Council trust fund right and the trust fund isn't able to support the additional increase in the pay plan save for spending less on the arts or am I missing something or is that a fire well that's right that's our the spending story that we have for spending on the arts we maximize and I think this is so if you didn't get this have to take from something you're currently doing to support the pay and the fringe assuming we had the spending authority for that correct right well you have some core spending authority we do but it's also split between equipment expenses and the personal services and this would come out of personal services presumably sure we have had adequate spending authority for that in the past I can't I don't know what the comparison would be to an increase okay very good thank you any additional questions on this item representative Kimball you have an inquiry may proceed Thank You mr. chair forgive me I am new here so for my understand excuse me for my understanding the for the a and e taxes statutorily it's 60% but from my understanding at least what I've been told like I said I'm new here but that has not been where we've been funding it in the past and I know no you're new as well so I don't know if anyone can answer that for me but just wanted to inquire about that and why it's not funded that way well I I'm new to this too so I joined the party I had asked the same question so I think it's a good question there's a statute that addresses the you know breaks down I think 60% to go to the Missouri Arts Council but there's a caveat and there's actually this was litigated in a case in which the Kansas City Symphony sued the state of Missouri say they hadn't gotten there a lot of amount there's a caveat where in essence if the legislature elects to appropriate those funds to something else it overrides the statutory percentages that are set out be happy to the case is Kansas City Symphony versus state of Missouri it was decided on February 23rd 2010 we'd be happy to share that with you if you if you have an interest in reading it yeah I appreciate it thank you I learned too so I learned this in the last week representative Riggs you have an inquiry on this you may proceed yep thank you mr. chairman yeah I've been around humanities since 2008 so the fund was stood up the percentages whatever in the 90s I can remember which year they have never actually appropriated the percentages that were supposed to go to arts humanities the other cultural partners basically paid bills with it so the 60% arts basically the pass-through so that's you know situation people have looked at over the years you know Peter Meredith was all over this for for quite some time and it is subject to appropriation so it's it's our call basically where that funding goes there is a formula that the culture partners abide by 60 10 10 10 but at the same time that is subject to appropriation that is on us if we choose to fund that at the appropriate level or not they never have thank you mr. thank you representative Riggs anything so the Arts Council Corps is on 14 this NDI is for them but any additional questions for the Arts Council while we've got them here or representative sign off I just want to talk about the Truman Library so I don't want to miss that we're gonna go to that next so I think we'll hit that let's make sure to hit the NDIs because I think if there's questions it's gonna be on those so that would be on page 12 which would be next and so representative Steinhoff and I guess we'll go to representative Taylor represent Steinhoff you recognize thank you sorry didn't try to get out of order anything I it looks to me like this two million dollars that's been appropriated for the Truman Library has been appropriated the last few years and I know that with the president directing people to be laid off that has hit our Truman Library and my guess is that that has all come to pass recently before this two million dollars was decided and I don't know if there has been any conversations with the Truman Library whether their needs have increased that is certainly a gem for our state so I do do you know have they reached out to your office since this is kind of the spot in the budget where it is I think Katie Ashcroft may have had some communication for them do you mind if Katie responds so I have had brief communications with the executive director and about the two million and you know I there haven't been conversations about asking for an additional amount from the state because I think that they get funding from several different sources federal funding private funding and they're probably still looking a little bit and absorbing changes that are coming down on the federal level so thus far we have not received any kind of request for additional state funding and this has been a consistent item I think maybe three years now this two million dollars to them it started under Governor Parsons so we will certainly keep the lines of communication open with them but right now they have not made a request for additional funds okay I would like to advocate for from what I'm hearing one of the things I mean I know that library does some amazing things all around but one area that I wanted to talk about is something called the White House Decision Center which is a simulation that they provide to high school students and it is really great for our students who are in civics and government classes which for our state in statute we require our high school students to take four tests related to this area all high school students are required to take the American civics exam the US Constitution's test the Missouri Constitution test the government EOC and that they're also required to have a semester of government and many of those teachers particularly in the west side of the state like to go to the Decision Center because it's a hands-on simulation with primary materials where they kind of get to experience what has happened when decisions have been made in the past and I know that there are many high school government teachers right now that are scrambling because they're hearing from the Truman Library that they're not sure they're going to be able to fulfill the field trips that have been scheduled for this spring from my understanding I don't know that they've been canceled but they kind of put everybody on alert because apparently the person who was in charge of that is one of the people that were let go and so now the staff is scrambling to try to figure out how to accommodate that one thing and I'm sure they're doing it with other things as well so I would ask that maybe you reach out and make sure that they are in an okay position I think that probably the governor also is very fond of the Truman Library and if we can help them out while we're in this budget process I think it would be helpful for all concerned thank you thank you mr. chair representative Taylor you have an inquiry on this item you may proceed my item was on the Arts Council oh okay I'm sorry I missed you on that proceed thank you sir good morning everyone good morning lieutenant governor and chief of staff if you wouldn't mind I would like to talk a little bit more about the Arts Council and in general and then maybe specifically about the st. Louis Symphony so number one the Arts Council I do think is critical I'm an engineer and you ask any one of science and engineering they will attest how important the arts are in helping us I think it's just fundamental in the educational process so I'd like to maybe just start the dialogue with your perspective on arts and arts funding you know we we had a award ceremony what was that a couple of weeks ago for the Missouri Arts Council what I outlined at that time representative Taylor is the arts really flows over to the other things we do within the office it can help veterans it can help the elderly or whether the Africa for seniors representative Steinhoff mentioned our youth you know there's a youth and frankly the disabled sometimes arts provides a great outlet for for those that are disabled so really it's not a one you know it's not a siloed area where you're just siloed as to the art I think it there's a lot of carryover into the other aspects of our office and frankly we're investigating that see if we can we can use both the arts as well as veterans seniors for example my mother lives at a retirement community and they allow the the residents to put their artwork that they paint there are some I guess some painters down in the lobby of there so I do think there's a there's a lot of benefits to the arts and with that like we said you know we know that there's a artists and athletes tax we're not necessarily fully funding that and to be honest you know I don't know that they could swallow the whole elephant at once but what's your perspective on continuing to maintain or growing that over time what's your perspective on growing that over time oh I think it's going to grow representative Riggs and I just had a discussion shortly before this hearing took place we have the 2026 World Cup in Kansas City I've heard mixed views as to whether or not that's going to bolster representative Riggs thinks it's going to bolster the coffers of that arts and entertainment tax I've heard conflicting stories about that but that's something we ought to monitor if that is a take on it we it may you know may generate quite a bit of revenue in 2026 I know in my dialogues with mr. Donovan that the Missouri Arts Council funds I want to say every county in the state of Missouri do you have a perspectiveon how broad this funding reaches? I think it's close to every county. I'm not sure it hits quite. Michael, do you have a... Let me, so I don't misspeak, he can probably tell you. I think you're on the right track, though. I think it covers almost every county in the state of Missouri. We track it by house district, so we're 94% of the house districts, which is up over the last several years, and we're focused on getting to 100%. We're in 100% of the Senate districts. We're in 197 cities in the state of Missouri. Excellent, excellent. I think it's just very important that we talk about this because I strongly believe that public funding of the arts is important to make sure that the arts are available to everyone, even folks that don't even necessarily know that they like arts. And I use the story of when I was a kid in St. Louis Public Schools, probably third or fourth grade, they would send the yellow buses over. It was a field trip, and we loved the field trip, not so much the trip to the symphony, but who would have thought that it just had a long-lasting impact. It introduced us to music, broader music than just what we may have heard on the radio. And at the time, our arts really thrived in St. Louis. So if you all would maybe just share your thoughts on public funding of the arts. I spoke my piece. Why don't you tell your piece? So I love the arts as well. I appreciate the arts. I think they do have a valuable place in our community, especially in the realm of education. When I think of my four children, art class is one of their favorite classes, and it's a nice break sometimes. It can help actually increase productivity, I think. For me, my perspective with art is that there's a place for it in the state budget. But I think that when you look at the state budget as a whole, Missouri is a very big state. There are a lot of costs. And sometimes when you start flipping through a budget book or looking at, I've had so many people come through my office the past three weeks with different funding requests, and you really have to drill down and start saying, okay, is this a value to Missouri taxpayers? Are they getting a return on their dollar? And when you look at everything that needs to be funded, what portion should be going to the arts versus other things? You guys hear a lot of funding requests as well. So I am in favor of devoting some state resources to the arts, but I think that it is a big picture question that you all will help us decide how much money needs to go to the arts. Excellent. And then my last point, just to wrap things up. I would be remiss if I didn't mention the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, and thank you so very much with the capital assistance. Huge addition to the city. So thank you so much for that. But also at the same time, I did want to ask you a little bit about some of the distance learning. So if you could comment just on your contribution to the symphony. Thank you so much for the capital dollars there. So I know that there was a $3 million pass-through grant that has come through our state budget this year for fiscal year 25, and it's my understanding talking with representatives from the symphony that that's going mainly to a capital project where they're expanding a portion of the symphony, which is a very old building, redoing some seating, just upgrading the building itself. There's another $3 million request pending for fiscal year 26, and it's my understanding that they're on the tail end of the construction. So only a portion would go towards construction, but then about a million would go towards educational programming, such as the distance learning you're talking about, and a million would go toward taking the symphony on a tour around the state. So I think for the next fiscal year, the $3 million is a slightly different type of expenditure than the current year. Thank you very much. Thanks for you all's support. I greatly appreciate it. Representative Steinmeier, you have an inquiry? You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for being here this morning. Regarding the Truman Librarian, it's in my hometown of Independence. I live in Sugar Creek, but it's about five minutes from my house, and it's a key tourism piece for my district, the city, and all the cities around us. So my ask is, and I'm grateful that Governor Parsons came up with the $2 million and helped that, and that was in response to a question that he asked. Is there any tourism tax money that Independence receives that goes towards the library? And the answer was no. It's always been kind of a private, they're having to fundraise all the time. Ticket sales, of course, don't quite pay everything at the door, so it does need some financial support. So I'm grateful that you've allowed this to be part of your budget, and appreciate if you can keep that for some time. But in saying that, I would ask, since you're communicating with them, that they provide us some details on the expenses, what they're spending this money on, just for some oversight, so that we can all understand what it is and how it's being spent and who's really spending the money. No, I think that's a great idea. So we'll reach out to them and mention that you, specifically, we've had a budget hearing this morning, and that request has been made. I appreciate that, and then if it can be distributed to our committee, that would be wonderful. Let's do that. Okay. That's a great idea. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No, Representative of the past and the previous iterations of this, you know, they did have, as you're, I'm sure, no doubt aware, living so close, they had a pretty extensive capital project renovation, and here to forward has been in support of that. Now, that doesn't speak to FY26, so I don't wanna, I'm not exactly certain of their plans. I think it likely is, again, capital, since this is one time in nature funding, as it's been requested, you know, year after year, and the amounts have varied slightly, as I recall, but that, I think the primary renovation has now been completed, but I understand, if I recall correctly, they have some other additional needs, and sidewalks, parking lots, things like that. Representative Young, do you have an inquiry on the Truman Library? Yes, thank you. Please proceed. Well, not on the Truman Library, but just a comment in general about Missouri Arts Council. Please go ahead. Thank you for being here this morning. I'm very familiar with Missouri Arts Council and all the benefits that they have provided for Jackson County, particularly Kansas City area. I've worked with a lot of non-profits who've been able to bring, like, their artist-in-residence programs to children and seniors, who've been, just a number of organizations, really, throughout the Kansas City area that utilize these funds, so I know the value and the benefit, particularly for children who may not otherwise have an opportunity to delve into that sort of creative model that Missouri Arts Council pushes, so I'd love to see, I ditto everything everyone has said here this morning. We do need to protect the arts. It is the gateway, I believe, to education. Thank you. Thank you, Representative. Representative Chappell, you are recognized for an inquiry or comment. Thank you, sir. Good morning, Lieutenant Governor. It's good to see you, sir. This issue on the Truman Library, I lived in Sugar Creek for quite a while, and actually was at the Truman Library many times, so this says that the funding will support operational and maintenance costs for the Truman Presidential Library and Independence, so is this an ongoing expenditure? Yeah, Katie Ashcroft has been communicating with them. Would you mind if Katie answered that question? I always love talking to Mrs. Ashcroft. I have talked with the Executive Director over there, and he's getting me a more complete detail on what the funds are going towards, but it's my understanding that a portion of this will go to keeping up the grounds and more maintenance, but we will get that information for you. Yeah, because I noticed that it was, there was two million appropriated back in 23. Yes. And that extended over into 24, and now we're back for another two million. Yes, it's been two million several years. Yeah, that doesn't sound much like a new decision item, really, when you look at it like that, does it? Well, we can get the breakdown of what the funding will go towards. Yeah, and some clarity would be really good on that as well, I would think. All right, thank you both. We'll do that. Okay, I think we can go now to 31, page 31, which is your new decision item for Springfield Art Museum. Five and a half million dollars. Don't know if you have any comments on that, or if there's any questions on this item. Again, this is one of those one-offers I think has been appropriated and placed in our budget, so we're open to any questions about it. Representative Chappell, you have a question. You may proceed. So this is where I live now. Yeah, Betsy, well, it's in her district, but we live in Springfield, right? And when I was a child, I took lessons there. So, I mean, I'm all about Springfield Art Museum. It's great. Do we actually anticipate, do they think, spending this five and a half million dollars this year? Well, again, I think Katie has been in contact with the Springfield Art Museum in terms of the logistics. I'll let her speak to this. Yeah, so there was a 10 million dollar NDI for fiscal year 25, and it's my understanding that about 4.5 of that has been transferred over to the Springfield Art Museum to date. They have not broken ground yet. I think they're scheduled for their groundbreaking in March. So, because they're not anticipated, I think, to finish for this fiscal year, and maybe make it through the entire 10 million. They broke out the reigning 5.5.put it back as a new decision item and are asking that be reappropriated. But I think the Springfield Art Museum does anticipate spending that full $10 million. And I did talk to Dan Hogg just to confirm that they will get a total of $10 million. They will not get like $15.5 million. But I think because the project is not going to be done by fiscal year 25, they're trying to give the remainder and push it into fiscal year 26 as a new decision item, if that makes sense. Yeah, if they haven't broken ground yet, the chances of them finishing by Friday they're breaking ground? Well, it doesn't matter. They're still not going to get done this fiscal year. Right. So I understand that. But okay. Can I just, it's your first year, first budget. I don't know how much input you had in gathering this information. Very little. For myself, I can't speak for the committee, but cost to continue, not terribly descriptive of what we're doing. And I think that you all should encourage these folks, not just Springfield Art Museum, but any of them, let us know what they're actually wanting to do with the money. It certainly helps for us to make decisions as we prioritize. We have X amount of dollars. It can only go so many places. And when I see things like cost to continue, that's troubling. I think it's a great request. Thank you, sir. Let's do it. Thank you. Okay. Seeing nothing further. Page 33. Got an additional NDI here. I think maybe something similar in nature. Again, the Bellefontaine Cemetery, another one offer that our now current Governor Kehoe, I think, had as in his budget recommendation. I assume they haven't been able to find a place to put it. So they've looked to the Lieutenant Governor's office to place this in the budget. Questions on this item? Representative Cupps, you have a question? More so in a general nature. Just to kind of help you out, I guess, a little bit, because we've all been new at some point. But on some of these items, you've said that this is another thing that's been appropriated. That's what we do here. I recommended it, not yet appropriate. I'm sorry. It's been recommended. Whether that be by your office or the Governor or someone that reached out to you saying that this would be a good place. You know, the book pretty clearly tells us whether or not it was proposed in your original budget or in the Governor's budget. So this is one of those things that I think, as you mentioned, it fits here. And so it's been recommended by the Governor to be here. But this body is who appropriates that. Point well taken, Representative. Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you. Well, number one, I think this is a reappropriation of funding for last year. That's correct. This is a reappropriation from last year. I know that they had some pretty large capital improvements that they were doing. Can you guys talk a little bit about some of the work that they're doing and restoring? I think Katie has been in contact with them. So they are doing some work. As you are probably aware, Bellefontaine Cemetery is a historic cemetery in North County, St. Louis, about over 300 acres. A lot of famous Missourians are built there. They've been doing work to refurbish the gatehouse, which is a historic piece of it. Also, there are these carriageways that go through repairing those so that they have a lot of tourists come through, school groups come through, and I guess the roadways were in disrepair. They've also put in a, let me think how to describe this, a labyrinth, I think they called it, outside sculpture for groups to come through and just enjoy the outdoors. And then a portion of that was an education program because they are in an area where they have a lot of children's groups, after school groups come through and to further those education programs. So that's my understanding of what that one's going towards. Yes, I would. Absolutely. Absolutely. And when you talk about the founding fathers of St. Louis, the founding fathers of our state, a lot of them are interned there. Our beer barons, just a tremendous history of our state is interned there. And they actually archive those records. They have some beautiful tours. So thank you for holding the reappropriation for this. Thank you very much. Okay. Okay, that concludes the new decision items. Anything additional for the Office of the Lieutenant Governor? Seeing none, thank you for being with us. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you to the committee. My first time. This wasn't too bad. Thank you. That'll conclude the fiscal year 2026 budget request for the Office of the Lieutenant Governor. We'll now move to the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services. Momentarily, and we've got to switch out analysts here and give time for our friends at the department to make their way. Director, thanks for being with us here today, and congratulations on your appointment. We certainly welcome any opening comments you might have today. Whenever you're ready, you may begin. Thank you, Chairman Deaton and committee. Good morning. I'm Sarah Wilson, Acting Director of the Department of Health and Senior Services. It's an honor to be with you today for my first budget hearing on my 12th day of employment with the state. As a bit of background, I was raised in Bland, Missouri, which is a small rural town about 40 miles southeast of Jefferson City. Growing up, I witnessed firsthand the power and importance of a strong public health system in our county. I've spent my professional career as a practicing nurse and healthcare executive advocating for access to appropriate, high-quality care. Most recently, I served as Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs for the Missouri Hospital Association, educating and advocating for reasonable regulation of hospitals. As such, I have great respect for the work that each of you put in. On behalf of the department staff, thank you for the opportunity to be here today. Before we get started, I have information that I would respectfully ask the committee to consider as the department's leadership reviews core spending and new decision items with you. This information has a profound bearing on what is being brought to you today, as well as the important work we have before us in the future. Missouri is not a healthy state. We rank 42nd among states in our overall health rankings. Further, among states, we rank at the bottom of the list for chronic disease, including heart disease, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stroke, and kidney disease. The population of Missouri is also aging, with more than 1.1 million Missourians who are over the age of 60. Estimates suggest that older adults will outnumber minors for the first time in Missouri within the next five years, and greatly outnumber minors within 30 years. That is within my and many of your lifetimes. An aging population means an increase in the incidence and prevalence of chronic disease, as well as the need for additional and different public health-related services. In my experience, it will be much harder to control downstream health care costs without a renewed focus and intentional investment in disease prevention, especially chronic disease and public health. Our team is with me today to present 27 new decision items on our budget of approximately $2.47 billion. You'll see in the overview document in front of you that the majority, or 67%, is from federal sources, and home and community-based services account for 80% of general revenue. In conclusion, I focused my career on improving care for children, women, seniors, and other vulnerable populations. The department has a long history of being a committed partner in improving health and safety for Missourians. I'm looking forward to building upon that commitment in part through the budget process. From here, I'll turn it over to Amy Blankenship, who is serving as the interim director for the Division of Administration within the department. Thank you for your time today. Any questions for the director before we get right in the book? Very good. Thank you. We may proceed with the budget book. Good morning. I'm Amy Blankenship. As she said, I'm the interim director for the Division of Administration. Sitting next to me is Sam Farthing, our financial manager. We're very happy to be here today to discuss our fiscal year 26 budget request with the governor's recommendations. Like the director just finished saying, the Department of Health and Senior Services' total budget request for fiscal year 26 is $2.47 billion. We are 67% federally funded and currently have approximately 200 grants. With an FTE count of 1,959.25, we perform many functions directly, but most of our programs and services are delivered through contracts with third parties that are overseen and monitored by our team members. We have a little over 3,500 active contracts right now. I will begin by presenting the statewide new decision items, followed by the director's office and administration division's budget, and then you will hear from each of our division directors about their specific budgets and programs. The Department of Health and Senior Services' budget begins on page eight. This is a new statewide decision item for the federal medical assistance percentage, otherwise known as FMAP, changed with the governor recommendedan amount of $14,092,522. Beginning on October 1st, 2025, the blended FMAP rate and the enhanced FMAP rate for the Children's Health Insurance Program and Women with Breast or Cervical Cancer Program will decrease. This change will result in a net cost shift from federal to general revenue for our department, the Department of Mental Health and Social Services. To realign that federal match, the governor recommended this NDI for additional general revenue authority as well as a corresponding core reduction in federal authority. On page 11, this is a governor-recommended statewide new decision item for a time of service pay plan for full-time state employees. The governor recommended $4,610,976. This NDI would provide a 1% salary increase for every two years of continuous state service and would cap out at 10% for 20 years of service. On page 21, this is a statewide new decision item for the general revenue pickup for the previously mentioned time of service pay plan for full-time state employees. The governor recommended $1,019,574 in general revenue. This description here, and this is not unlike a request I haven't asked from your counterparts at DSS and others at DMH, but on box three there on page 21, and again, this seems to be the boilerplate explanation, experiencing solvency issues, obviously again referencing federal funds, funds that have restricted use of federal funding or funds that require general revenue or other fund transfer. And so, curious as to what's going on here. Is it that the grant language caps the amount that can go to PS, and so like we've hit that cap, so therefore we'd be in violation of the federal grant, or is it that we've just maxed out the grant award amount and if we're to spend more of it on personal service, then that's less we can spend on PSD or what have you, programmatic things. So can you provide us for the 1.9 million, almost two million, provide us a breakdown, not at this moment, but follow up with a breakdown by federal grant and the amount and the reason for the pickup. Is it the grant, it's restricted and it can't, additional is not, it's prohibited, or it's just a policy decision basically. It's, we can use the federal money or we can use general revenue, but if we use the federal money, we're gonna do less of the program necessarily because there's no more federal dollars to be had for that, you know, just a better understanding of what exactly are we saying yes or no to here. Would be helpful. Definitely, we can do that for you. I think our answer will entail all the above, what you just mentioned, but we can definitely get you some more details on that as follow up. Yeah, that would be helpful because, and again, I've been without looking at it, it's curious as to are they all created equal, are they different, and that would be helpful to see, so thank you for following up with that. Okay, please turn to page 29. This is the core appropriation for the director's office. The department requested $1,009,374 and 11 FTE and the governor recommended the same. The director's office serves as the focal point for leadership and coordination across the department and partners with various stakeholders across the state. They provide support for the entire department of health team and include the director, our deputy director, the office of public information, and the office of legislative affairs. Please turn to page 34. This is the core appropriation for the division of administration. The department requested $11,024,728 and 82.35 FTE and the governor recommended the same. This division provides the administrative and financial support services for the entire department. The office of human resources is also included in this core appropriation which handles all of our personnel functions, professional development, and recruitment. This budget also includes departmental operational funds for program staff expenditures such as warehousing, fleet, postage, and warehousing. These costs alone are approximately two million of the administrative budget request. Please turn to page 40. Representative Tim Taylor, you have a question, you may proceed. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. If you look at the unexpended line on page 35, there's been a continual increase. Can you explain that, why that's taken place? I'm gonna actually defer to Sam on this as she's our financial manager on this. Most of this would be from, we received some additional appropriation out of the veterans from the Division of Cannabis Regulation and ramping up those costs. Also, in the past, some of our other costs have decreased but they are beginning to ramp back up. We're coming out of COVID, some of our full departmental operation costs like fleet went down and they're beginning to come back up slowly. Some of this also is, I would probably have to get you more information to get the actual details of all of what the actual breakdown of the appropriations but most of this is, if you look at the bottom of page 35, it's in the other funds and it is gonna be in those cannabis-related funds where we have the appropriation but we're waiting for the cash to actually build into those funds to where they could actually be expended. Okay, thank you, I appreciate it. On the cannabis funds specifically, I mean, we're having, I think, even a supplemental item because we keep undershooting the revenues or the actual experience has been greater than the projections. So we haven't, I mean, at least in the last year or so, I think really from the beginning that's been the experience. It's not for a lack of, like are you saying there's administrative things that you'd like to do that you don't, there's not money there? Correct, the money has to be spent within the division before we can actually earn our portion of that money to spend on department operational costs. But that doesn't apply to cannabis money, does it? You're not getting a federal match on cannabis dollars. It's not federal match, it's our overhead costs. It's applied equally to all funds across the department. So if we have staff paid out of our cannabis funds, we actually get the overhead costs at the same rate as we would on federal funds. So we have to have that staff working. I see. Okay, so the staff aren't working? They are now, but we don't earn any of our actual funds that we can expend on operational costs until it's an after the fact. They work, we earn those funds, and then those funds are then expended on operational costs. So the reason there was so much unexpended in 24 versus 23 is because these people weren't working on cannabis-related things, but they are now working on them in 2025, and so you wouldn't expect to see a similar number in 2025 as was in 2024. We're going to see where those funds expended. Okay, that's helpful. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry. Oh, I'm sorry, for the record, can you introduce yourself in the microphone? Sure, my name is Samantha Farthing. I'm the financial manager for the Division of Administration. Thank you, Representative Chappell. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't think I've ever heard the cannabis question described that the experience was greater than the projection before. That was good. I think that's why we're seeing these revenues, as a matter of fact. So you can't spend on the cost of operations out of the funds from other, until when? Until it is spent by the staff working on those areas. All of our overhead costs are earned at the same rate, which is based on personal service and fringe, based on those employees working, and then we use those monies to support those staff across the department. And where in is that money coming from? And where in is that dictated? We have a cost proposal that is negotiated with the federal government, through Health and Human Services. But the federal government's not dealing with this, are they? No, but it is applied to all. Because it's still illegal at the national level. Correct, but we use the same. So we're not gonna let them tell us how we can spend this money we've gotten illegally, according to them, are we? We use the same rate and apply it across the entire department and across all funds. All funds are treated equally. I know you do, I'm asking, do you have to? Under federal regulation, any funds that come into the department, part of our negotiation is that we treat all equally. Even funds that they say are illegal? Funds that they consider illegal, yes. I think we could get around that in a New York minute just by saying, no, we're not gonna do that. What are they gonna do? Because here's my problem. It's not just that we have roughly 1 3rd lapse every single year. And as the projections go up, the lapse is following. It's not just that, although that's disconcerting, but it's the fact that we are spending almost every dollar of general revenue and not spending the Fed and the other. And the GR is precious. It should be the last dollar spent. And so if the Feds don't regulate our cannabis program, let's pay ourselves out of that and save that GR. Yes, we can take that one offline. I think part of this is where the money is appropriated and which areas it's appropriated also. Just an idea, folks. Thank you. You're referencing your cost allocation plan, are you not? Yes, we've negotiated that with Health and Human Services. And we can definitely have this conversation with them. But right now our calculations go to them for approval and they have.final say of how how much we can charge and how we can apply it. Yeah one thing that might be helpful can you apply your most recent cost allocation plan as a follow-up and yes people could look at that if they have interest and to do a little further deep dive in in that the percentages and I assume the federal government because obviously part of that cost allocation plan is federal dollars for federal programs they're picking up PS and the fringe well until they're not and we decide to use GR but put that aside there they are picking participating somewhat and it's presumably to the percentage a particular FTE is working on that federal grant or federal program so if they spend 25% of their time then presumably we would be billing 25% of their PS and fringe to that federal grant and now if they you know only spent 20% of their time on it and we wanted to build 25% I assume that's where they throw a flag and be like hold on you know you're overcharging us the Fed or something to that effect right and so that all presumably you know comes into it so anyway that would be maybe helpful for folks to look at if there was any interest thank you I'm sorry representative Owen please proceed thank you mr. chairman I would be happy to go into greater depth later but since we're on this subject I was asked by the speaker back last summer fall to attend the Mocan convention in Springfield and as I'm down there and going through the displays and talking to people in the business I had several people approach me about a new program that your division is getting ready to roll out for people of modest means and as they were talking to me about and I give you context I spent 40 years in the banking business okay so I understand you know credit and and and what you're looking for in making a good loan and as they were listing everything that your department was wanting would be everything that a lender would not want and so I called your director and I've told her this is this is a setup for disaster you're going to have stories of people who have are just barely squeezing by that are going to go belly up and have absolutely nothing and it's going to be an embarrassment I will be more than happy to talk to you or anyone else I've talked to some people in the governor's office trying to alert them to this but to to expect people of very modest means to come up with the kind of capital which means debt and not allow you know let's say angel investors to help out and what have you I mean to me that's the only way you're going to brace this thing up where you're going to support these people where they're going to be successful on their own it the vast majority are going to go belly up and I would just like to solve this thing and stop it from happening before it gets started so just be happy to talk to you about it and not waste everybody else's time but I'm just saying I'm appalled that that we are structuring something like this to just set people up for for I guess to the average person it sounds great it sounds like a wonderful thing but but but the way you're structuring this it's set for disaster thank you mr. chairman I appreciate that information I'm not aware of that program but we will definitely check into that and get back yes yes it's it's it's for people in fact I think you you help yourself qualify if you've had you know financial issues in the past I mean it's just everything they were listening to me of what they were looking for in in in the in the people they were going to give these license to we're exactly opposite of what you'd want so representative just to clarify I think you're probably talking about a program within the division of cannabis yes since you're okay and I think they're probably forthcoming a little bit later and probably have some I didn't know we were going to get a direct presentation by them well I don't I think we will yeah so okay well but you're over this so I'm I'm wanting I assume that that you are the administration for the department we are the division of an administration and the director's office we have our director Sarah Wilson and then we also have cannabis who's going to present later okay well I love to talk to them because I tried to talk to the director and just say you got you got real issues with this with this operation we have definitely heard you okay thank you because I want as you can tell I'm wanting to be heard on this I understand I appreciate that yes all right I think I have another opportunity for over for the day representative Owen so when we get on that division so yes please proceed I think we should be on is it 41 yes sir page 41 this is the core appropriation request for the health initiatives fund transfer for seven hundred and fifty nine thousand six hundred and twenty four dollars and other fun funds and the governor recommended the same this is a transfer appropriation to deposit funds and to the health access incentives fund for our office of rural health and primary primary care these funds are spent each year on contracts to increase interest and medical professions for rural and underserved areas please turn to page 46 this is the core appropriation for the debt offset escrow for $50,000 and other funds and the governor recommended the same this fund is used by the Department of Revenue to deposit tax refund intercepts from those students who are not meeting their loan obligations for the funding they accepted to use towards their medical degrees on page 51 this is the core appropriation for refunds and the department requested four hundred one thousand two hundred dollars and the governor recommended the same this appropriation allows us to refund money to citizens and other organizations when necessary if you could please turn to page 56 the department is requesting to continue our 50% flexibility for refunds between federal funds and other funds retaining our flexibility is important so we can make sure that we can make those refunds as necessary from one fund to the to the other as we really don't know where they're going to come from could you please turn to page 57 this is the core appropriation for federal grants for 3 million 129 471 and the governor recommended the same this fund is used if we receive new grant funding during the fiscal year and the appropriation authority does not exist on page 62 this is the appropriation for donated funds for four hundred and sixty six thousand six sixty nine and the governor recommended the same similar to the previous line item this fund is used if we receive new donated funding during the fiscal year and the appropriation authority does not exist please turn to page 68 this is the appropriation for the medical preceptor transfer for two hundred thousand dollars and the governor recommended the same qualified community-based faculty preceptors are allowed to claim a tax refund under chapter 143 up to a maximum of three thousand dollars a year and funding for this credit is generated from a portion of license fees for physician surgeons and physician assistants on page 73 this is the appropriation for the legal expense fund fund for one dollar in general revenue and the governor recommended the same this line item gives us the ability to pay claims premiums and other legal expenses from our operating budget this actually concludes the budget for the director's office and the Division of Administration and if there are no other questions for us next you will hear from Mindy Laughlin the deputy director for the Division of Community and Public Health about their specific budget and programs thank you please proceed thank you good morning chairman Deaton and committee thank you for your time today as Amy said my name is Mindy Laughlin I'm a deputy director in the Division of Community and Public Health so before we start going through our core items and our new decision items I wanted to give you a little bit of background on the division the Division of Community and Public Health has over a hundred diverse programs currently funded 91% federal funds 5% general revenue and 4% other funds our work is completed not only through our own FTE but with many stakeholders who hold contracts with us last fiscal year fiscal year 24 our division managed 159 grants over 1170 contracts and processed over 26,000 invoices and purchase orders our services span birth to death all with a common goal of improving health through prevention and response as we move through the budget book I will describe the activities of the division in a little more detail as I introduce each core before we begin walking through the budget I wanted to remind you of a couple changes that were supported by this committee last year that we also implemented last year in regards to laying out our DCPA but DCPH budget with more core sections than previous and in alignment with how we operationally organize ourselves those changes have remained with a few additional core sections added as a result of new budget items granted through this granted to us during our last session I'd like to remind you of two trade-offs that resulted from this effort that we also discussed last year the first one being is our actual expenditures will not be available until fiscal year 25 is complete as this is the first year working with the new appropriation structure secondly our need for transitional flex for several years last year we were granted the 30% flex between appropriation bill sections for like appropriations meaning flex from PS to PS and E&E to E&E this flex is imperative to the opportunity for continuity of operations as we continue to solidify the actual amounts needed for each coresince this is transitional we anticipate requesting less flex each year until we are comfortable in our normal processes and as with all flex that is utilized all appropriate parties including house appropriations will be notified if and when flex is used maintaining our ability to flex ensures we can meet all operational requirements again we believe this is the best way to present our budget and we appreciated your support last year and we ask that you continued support us as we fine-tune this new bed this new layout here next to me is Maddie Starnes she is the operations director for the division of community and public health how much flex are you asking for this year then and does it vary or is it consistent this year we in this budget book we requested 30% flex again because we began this structure July 1st the beginning of the fiscal year and whenever we had to have this our department request budget to the governor's office was October 1st so we'd only had about three months of operational expenses and so we weren't comfortable reducing it in this budget but next year you would see a reduction to what or do you know that yet to the flex I don't know the exact amount yet but we do anticipate reducing it after we've had a full operation I mean has it been going good have you had to use much I mean now you've got four additional months I mean it's not October 1st and I get that you had to make your submission then but you know we've had all that or you know you've had that experience from then now is it you still think 30% is anything less than that would make you keep you up at night anticipate we have not used 30% flex yet this fiscal year have you used any not of the 30% no or no not flex we do anticipate meeting it later this quarter possibly in the fourth quarter as we can spin down and really see that okay now is the time we didn't want to prematurely flex I think that the 30% will be sufficient for this year and then once we see how much we actually use it'll guide the next amount the lower amount okay thank you I'm sorry can you introduce yourself for the record in the microphone thank you yes I'm Maddie Starnes the operations director for our Division of Community and Public Health I felt like I was really loud a while ago so is that can you still hear me I can hear okay all right I'm pretty loud sometimes so all right we'll start with our page 78 which is our cancer and chronic disease core decision item you'll notice that the governor recommends a budget of nine million nine hundred forty nine thousand nine hundred ninety dollars and twenty one point six zero FTE our cancer and chronic disease control and prevention core reflects our programmatic areas that work on the prevention of cancer and chronic disease such as heart disease diabetes asthma and arthritis along with our community health worker program in this area you will also find our organ donor program along with show me healthy women and wise woman programs which provide cancer and cardiovascular prevention services through our provider networks so I do want to take your attention to page 80 really quick this is where you'll see the first of those notes that Mindy made related to our core allocations in her introduction so if you see the amounts for 24 23 and 22 those relate to the previous core structure and are not reflective of the cancer and chronic disease funds that would be you would expect in 25 and beyond for it to be respective of this core or whichever core we're looking at through the book but right now that 31 million is not that's the previous structure not how we're currently operating then also if you go to page 84 that is the second part of Mindy's introduction which relates to the flex so this is the 30% transitional flex and you'll see this behind nearly all of our cores the flex forms are all the same and we'll note them as we go through next we'll move to page 85 this is our first new decision item we do have a corresponding supplemental also that was presented previously this is for our preventative health and health services block grant cost to continue the governor recommends six hundred forty nine thousand and eighty one dollars this request is for additional federal authority for an increase in in what's called the preventative health and health services block grant funds that we'll use and the division for various different activities okay page 88 we have our core decision item for communicable disease control and prevention the governor recommends seven million eight hundred eighty one thousand five hundred seventy eight dollars and forty point five six FTE this core reflects our program areas that work on prevention and control of communicable diseases this includes tuberculosis elimination program various immunization programs for uninsured or underinsured adults and children's our health care associated infections program which assists with health care facilities in preventing and controlling infections our zoonotic disease program which assists in managing disease spread from animals and insects to humans and our staff of epidemiologists who manage and provide consultation to our local health agencies in responding to reportable diseases and conditions which averages over 60,000 a year I do want to note or if Maddie wants to go into some on page 92 you will see a reallocation for seventy seven thousand three hundred sixty four dollars this is for a programmatic realignment for some of those large core reallocations we did in in 25 you're gonna see a corresponding negative to that later back in the book on page 206 and then I want to note the FMAP adjustment and that is related to immunization cost purchase for the chip. Next we have our new decision item for the children's health insurance program cost to continue we also had a supplemental for this as well the governor recommends two million six hundred eighty seven thousand eight hundred and sixty six dollars this funding is to requested to support the purchase of immunizations for children enrolled in the children's health insurance program this additional funding is needed due to the growth of the eligible children in the program since the chip is a federal entitlement program the immunizations are purchased at the FMAP split between GR and federal funds. Representative Hausman please proceed I thought you were just walking out actually I was like never mind. Thank you Mr. Chair um quick question um could you explain to me a little bit I'm a little confused on the chip so that's for children that don't qualify for Medicaid but they qualify for insurance through the state? So chip children are not eligible so VFC is one of the other programs so that is considered those are that is totally uninsured so yes chip is a considered a private insurance coverage. Okay that like their parents wouldn't be on but they because I'm just a little confused and pardon me for my ignorance so you say you have chip but then you also have like marketplace where you can get insurance so how does that what's the difference? I can't or is that too complicated? I can't speak to that right now so I know that's something we can get you more details on chip we work through Department of Social Services with some of that chip eligibility and things as well so I we will get you information about what the difference is between marketplace eligibility chip children and I'm just curious about the you know the difference in the cost and how you qualify for those two okay and also does this reflect the cost per immunization or the cost per child? This covers cost of like so when we purchase the vaccine it's the cost of the what the vaccine cost would be. Okay all right thank you very much Mr. Chair because just to clarify so like each child may have a different cost depending upon what immunizations they are getting does that make you okay okay next we'll move to page 98 this is our core decision item for community health and wellness initiatives the governor recommends 16 million one hundred seventy two thousand five hundred twenty six dollars and twenty one point one six FTE this core reflects our work in reducing health risk and in turn increasing the health of our citizens and communities while there are various approaches to this work the major initiatives are the tobacco use prevention initiatives and cessation services prevention of unintentional injuries and opioid overdoses providing support and consultation to school nurses and working with schools worksites child cares and community partners for the implementation of policies and infrastructure that naturally support increased physical activity and nutrition if you will turn to page one oh excuse me one moment representative Fogel please proceed I'm sorry if you already mentioned this but can you just quickly explain the significant jump from fiscal year 24 to fiscal year 25 in the amount that we appropriated on page 100 yes so that relates back to the core reallocations okay so the 100,000 that you're seeing in 24 23 and 22 relate to the old structure okay the 18 is ongoing and you would expect to see around there okay thank you I think you're good to proceed thank you I'd like to draw your attention to page 102 that you will see is the transfer of thetwo million dollars for the statewide school fentanyl water testing appropriation from us that is to the Department of Public Safety. Page 105 is a new decision item for our sexual risk avoidance education. This is a governor recommended NDI for $70,000. This request is for the additional federal authority for an increase in funds from this grant. Representative Hausman, please proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair. Is this a contractor contracted contract or is this the schools are teaching this? I'm gonna let Valerie Howard come up and speak to this a little bit in a little bit more detail. Oh. Good morning. My name is Valerie Howard and I'm the chief of the Bureau of Community Health and Wellness. In our sexual risk avoidance program, we contract with health departments and school districts to teach. We have top clubs, teens, the top club program where we work with adolescents to teach them positive life skills to avoid sexually risk, sexual risky behaviors. So it is a contracted program that we work with others to implement and it's a standardized curriculum that's used. So this is not a new program? No it's not. No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Chair. Thank you. Next we're going to go to our core decision item for the substance use disorder grant program. That's on page 107. This core is new for fiscal year 26 and is a result of the proposed core reallocation. The division operates the substance use disorder grant program which is funded with proceeds from the veterans health and community reinvestment fund that is housed within our division of cannabis regulation. We are seeking to reallocate the funds from that division to DCPH to align the budget with department operations. This core reflects the PS, E&E, and FTE that currently administers this grant program. This FTE is for the administration of the grant. Page 112 is the core decision item for the substance use disorder grant program. The substance use disorder grant program awards grants to agencies and not-for-profits to increase access to evidence-based low barrier drugs substance use disorder programs, support prevention education, job placement, housing, and counseling for those with SUD. I think I... Representative Taylor please proceed. Thank you. Can you expand a little bit more on what the how these grants are administered and specifically how they help with housing? Again I think Valerie Howard's going to come up here and speak to that. Yes we are they're being administered competitively so through a notice of grant opportunity that is available to anybody who's interested in applying for the use of those funds and so as Mindy mentioned we do have the opportunity to address any of those issues that are identified in the constitution for which the funding can be used access to treatment prevention and recovery services. These notice of the do the do agencies apply for the grants or do individuals apply for the grants? Organizations. For example which organizations in the St. Louis area? We haven't had any yet. What do you please explain what do you So we're working on releasing the notice of grant opportunities. We've got three that are close to being released and once those are released then whoever's interested in applying will apply. Is this a new grant that you're trying to administer? Yes. And last year we appropriated funds but this did not get off the ground? Fiscal year 24 are you referencing? We did actually implement one we have a an agreement with the department of mental health who's working with the recovery community centers to provide continued access to treatment services and recovery support. Okay and then be more specific about the housing is that just one of the criteria that you can apply for within the grant? Correct. What type of housing assistance do we plan to offer or support? Well it's going to depend on what's the need and what the applicant requests and how they want to use that to support recovery and treatment services for the individual. Okay thank you. Representative Hine please proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair. Good morning. Can you explain how information about this grant will be distributed to I mean I think all of us in this room understand the need but we'd really like to see the money be utilized. How can we help you get this information out to our areas, our districts, our you know interested parties? That's a great question. So once they're available we will have a website on the department of health and senior services where the grant applications can be accessed and then we have a distribution list that we've been collecting. We have a separate email for folks to let us know that they're interested in receiving information on when they become available. We have a significant network distribution list throughout the agency and we've even discussed releasing a press release to let people know about the availability of funds. So any assistance that you guys can provide we would appreciate. Are legislators automatically included in that distribution list? No but we can include you. Okay because I get the economic development grants they come through on email so it'd be good to have these as well so we can help push them out. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Chair. Next we have page 117. It is our new decision item for the adult use SUD grants. This is a governor recommended new decision item of $20,794,885. This request is for the authority to expend the additional funds made available through the transfer from the veterans health and community reinvestment fund. It should be noted that $1,325,325 of this request is specifically earmarked to support the department of mental health's youth behavioral liaisons. Next page 120 is our core decision item for the substance use disorder DMH youth substance use grant. This is a governor recommendation of $150,000. This core supports funding to the department of mental health to prevent youth substance use. Funds have been allocated to the prevention resource centers for youth substance use prevention evidence-based programming materials and training. This program is a single session substance use prevention program designed to promote fitness and health. Page 125 is a core decision item for the substance use disorder DMH youth services liaison. This is a governor recommendation of $500,000. This core supports funding to the department of mental health to provide youth services liaison. Funds have been allocated to employ three youth behavioral health liaisons and one community behavioral health liaison. These liaisons support youth and adults experience mental health challenges by connecting them with necessary services within their community. The NDI that I just discussed on page 117 for the $1.3 million will increase this core. Page 130 is a core decision item for the substance use disorder DMH peer respite services grant. This is for amount of $1.5 million recommended by the governor. This core supports funding to the department of mental health to provide peer respite services. Funds have been allocated for peer respite stabilization services to support community-based non-clinical crisis support for individuals experiencing substance use disorder or co-occurring mental health disorders. The services operate 24-7 in a peer-led trauma-informed environment that utilizes a social recovery model. Page 135 is a core decision item for the substance use disorder DMH alcohol abuse prevention. This is a governor recommendation of $500,000. This core supports funding to the department of mental health to prevent youth alcohol abuse. Funds have been allocated to the prevention resource centers for alcohol misuse prevention efforts supporting the implementation of data-driven strategies across the state with equal funding for the state's 10 PRCs. Each PRC will determine strategies for its community and describe a plan for spending the provided funds. Page 140 is our core decision item for the substance use disorder supreme court grant. This is a governor recommendation of $250,000. This core supports funding to the department of mental health to provide peer respite services. Funds have been allocated for peer respite stabilization services to support community-based non-clinical crisis support for individuals.experienced substance use disorder or co-occurring mental health disorders. The services operate 24-7 in a peer-led trauma-informed environment that utilizes a social recovery model. Page 145 is a core decision item for the substance use disorder DESE grant. This is a governor recommendation of $350,000. This core supports funding to the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education to support school drug awareness programs including marijuana initiatives for youth. These funds will support drug abuse resistance materials and programming for school drug awareness. Page 150 is our core decision item for the tobacco addiction prevention. This is a governor recommended amount of $300,000. This core reflects new funding in fiscal year 25 for youth tobacco use prevention initiatives to implement evidence-based interventions to prevent and reduce youth tobacco use. These initiatives will partner with state and local health agencies, associations, schools, and universities. Activities will include training and technical assistance to support the implementation of evidence-based strategies to prevent and reduce tobacco use and increase education and awareness. Are they just narrowly focused on tobacco? They're not talking about vaping, they're not talking about smoking cannabis, you know, there's other things that get into your, you know, these other products get into your lungs too. Why would we just narrowly focus just on tobacco? That's the funding was allocated specifically to address tobacco addiction, so that's the focus of the funding. That's what we're using it for and you're right. You're, I'm over here. Oh no, I'm sorry. So this is a grant from who? This is funding that was appropriated from you guys last year. Okay and who determined that it was just for tobacco? That is what the House bill language says. The House bill, so it's our fault. It's the House bill language says for tobacco addiction prevention. Okay, so in other words going forward we might be smart to add the other things that also impact your lungs. If you're, I mean, if you're already there in the room explaining why tobacco is bad, maybe we should have that discussion about the other things. Well, not your fault, we're bad. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representative Voss, please proceed. Thank you. I think I know the answer to my question, but previously when I was doing some research, I had noticed probably 15 years ago where the state of Missouri was both subsidizing the growth of tobacco as well as sponsoring tobacco cessation with state taxpayer money. Do you know if we're still subsidizing the growth of tobacco in our state through the Department of Ag or any federal funds? We don't know that. Could you follow up, please? And I'll also be happy to ask the Department of Agriculture, but I just want to make sure we're not funding competing priorities here with our monies. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Hausman, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to go back to 140, page 140, if you don't mind. They talked about being a DMH program, but this was a Supreme Court grant, correct? Could you explain that a little bit? Yes, I probably read the wrong, so she was just saying what, go ahead. Yes, the Supreme Court funding is to support Medicaid medical assisted treatment. Okay, that was my mistake. Okay, just wanted a clarification. Thank you. Representative Black, please proceed. I can shine a light on this tobacco issue. Missouri gets like $100 million a year from the tobacco settlement that was in Korea where that was provided many years ago. The amount of that money that actually goes to prevention, that pool of money is minuscule. And so this is an effort to try to get some more money to prevention at various locations around the state from basically, uh, sources are available, including marijuana tax money. The if you ask 10 people on the street, which addictive substance in Missouri kills the most people every year, 99 are going to say opioids or meth. And that answer would be wrong. The addictive substance in Missouri that kills more people in Missouri every year is tobacco, and we don't deal with it effectively. So these sources of findings would be used to address that concern, hopefully in increasing amounts every year. Thank you, Mr Chair. Mhm. I think we're ready for page 1 55, which is our core decision item for tobacco cessation. This core reflects funding for tobacco cessation, which makes funding available for services through the Missouri tobacco quit line. This was a governor recommended amount of $200,000. Mhm. Page 1 60 is our core decision item for Community and Public Health Administration. Fiscal year 26 governor recommendation is $5,471,676 and 68.40 F. T. E. This core reflects the leadership's positions of the division along with staff that support our common operating functions in the areas of fiscal management, general counsel, public information and information technology coordination. Page 1 68 is our core decision item for emergency preparedness and response. The governor recommends $16,274,503 and 36.76 F. T. This core reflects work done in assisting public health, um, including our local public health agencies and our health care system to be able to respond and develop partnerships that already are put in place and exercise such that these agencies are prepared to protect the health of Missourians during a public health emergency. These types of emergencies include events such as tornadoes, floods, disease outbreaks, bioterrorism, mass casualty and fatality incidents. Those are just example of a few that we have. We might experience Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you. Um, let's talk for a few moments about page 1 70. I know that we've been talking about core reallocations, but in this case it's really not clear what the department is doing, you know, ongoing. So if you can highlight what we actually are doing and how much are those, how much are we actually spending on those services? So the we talked about the core allocations, but I do know that this specific one there we had all of the covid and ARPA funds together in our emergency preparedness and response core prior to making those core allocations. And so we have separated those out at the back into their own core. So that's part of the reason why those numbers are so large is because of those large amounts of federal dollars that were appropriated. You're asking for $16 million. What do we actually perform? Um, and how much do we, you know, how much are we actually spending of this $16 million? How much did you spend? How much did you spend last year? Oh, to give specifics, I'd have to get back to you on that to pull or even generalities. But how much did you spend last year? That would relate to we largely spend most of these emergency preparedness grants. So there's the public health emergency preparedness grant funding. There's our hospital preparedness funding and others and those main regular not related to covid. We by and large spend most of those emergency preparedness grants. These are grants that you're providing. You're providing two different community emergency response teams and hospitals. There's contracts to the local public health agencies and various partners. Yes, there's multiple emergency preparedness grants within this. I'm gonna ask if you guys would follow up with me with a little more specifics on what we actually spent last year. Absolutely. We can work on that. Thank you. Thank you. We're ready. Okay. Page 1 76 is a new decision item for our public health emergency preparedness grant authority. This is a governor recommendation of $99,145. We did have a corresponding supplemental for this as well. This request is to transfer the federal authority from SEMA to the Department of Health and Senior Services for a portion of the work done under the public health emergency preparedness grant. Mhm. Page 1 79 is our new decision item for ventilator maintenance. We also had a supplemental for this as well. This N. D. I reflects our request for preventative maintenance of state emergency ventilator cash managed by the Department of Health and Senior Services Office of Emergency Coordination. Cash contains 500 ventilators that can be quickly deployed to the hospitals experience surges in patients with critical respiratory distress, which could occur again with an influenza R. S. V. Our novel respiratory disease pandemic to be ready for deployment and to meet the regulatory requirements that are required.in hospitals, the ventilators and key components must receive the preventative maintenance on an annual basis according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Representative Hausman, do you have any query on this? You may proceed. Yes, thank you Mr. Chair. I have a question. Is there a contract on these ventilators? Like someone that's taking care of them and which is, we already have a contract on them so this is something that we have to pay? Yes, we have to pay individuals to be able to maintain them. Just for maintenance, so there's not an actual contract of who's taking care of them currently. I'm gonna have to get back to you on that. I can't speak to that a hundred percent. Do you know the lifespan of a ventilator? Properly, if they're maintained, it's over 20 years. Over 20 years? Yes. Okay, because from my understanding, we've asked if the hospitals want these and they do not. I can't speak specifically for the program and in what the hospitals have said. I know we do have hospitals currently. We actually have some deployed right now that a hospital has reached out to us and asked because they had reused, all of theirs were in use and I think a couple of theirs had been recalled so they had to contact us so we could deploy them for patients that needed respiratory support. Do you know how many that was, like, roundabout? A couple, two or three, I think, that are deployed right now. I'm just trying to imagine these 500 ventilators sitting in a warehouse somewhere that are basically rotting and we're not really using them but a couple and we're gonna spend, you know, almost half a million dollars on them. That's all, thank you. All right, we've got a bit of a queue forming here and I think it's gonna take us beyond the 10 o'clock hour, which is a problem, and so we'll just stop here. I've got at least Representative Taylor, Representative Voss, and we'll come back to you and come back to this item when we come back from adjournment. So we'll go up the floor now, we'll recess for session and obviously that's a indeterminate period of time and we'll come back, you know, fairly quickly upon adjournment, maybe look for an announcement on the floor and we'll return right here to this item 170 on 179, excuse me, ventilator maintenance and for the time being we'll stand in recess.