If I can get everyone their seats, please. Welcome back. And I'm the sub appropriations chair for Mohealthnet committee and so that's where we're going to start. And we're going to start with Todd Richardson and as Jess Bax could come forward. Good morning, everyone. It's very good to be here with you and on this beautiful weather day, I feel like everybody's here because we're stuck in the building. Nothing else going on in the Jeff city area. So my name is Jess Bax and I am day 23 as the director of social services. And I'm very, very honored to be chosen by governor Kehoe to serve on his team in this capacity. I've spent my entire career in public service. Did not intend to do that. Went to this was a part time job during college. And so I started working at senior and disability services, which is a former piece of department of social services. We like to move things around in state government just to keep everybody on their toes about where those divisions and programs might be located. So about two decades ago, I started in senior and disability services and was put in charge of constituent calls for legislative offices. And I soon learned that the reason that they hired part time staff to do that is because no one who worked there wanted to do that. And people typically, as you know, don't call those don't make those calls because they're wanting to brag on the state agency in their area. They're usually calling because government has failed them and they don't understand how to access the program. They don't understand why the decision was made to something wasn't explained or they can't get an answer at all. So I took a different approach and tried to follow. I'm curious by nature. I'd like to learn and followed those cases kind of from beginning to end, kept in touch with families all along the way and discovered that there are so many reasons why government programs can fail operationally. And sometimes it's a training issue locally. Sometimes it's a budget issue and the supervisor didn't understand the way the funds were supposed to be released. And sometimes it is actually just letting one of our citizens know that there's a federal regulation around that and making sure that they at least have an answer. So that is what, you know, I was starting out on a teaching degree, going to become a professor in a large city. And today I live with my five daughters and my husband in St. Elizabeth, Missouri, which is a very large metropolis about 45 minutes south of here. So I spent 17 years at senior and disability services. There's so much to be done and to be fixed at each and every agency. We have an aging baby boomer population. And eventually worked my way into the role of division director there, spent about three years in that role. Then I moved over to mental health. We never know where life's journey will take us. When I met my husband, he had a four-year-old little girl. She has a rare chromosome disorder. She has developmental disabilities, has a lot of intense behavioral support needs. So that journey led me to really want to help with the disability services and how we support those families. So I spent the last four years as the division director for developmental disabilities with Department of Mental Health. And now I am at the mothership of Health and Human Services in Missouri. And so a little bit of an overview of social services. And I'm going to keep this very light because today is day one with our department. And the next state holiday is, you all like to spend holidays with us, we know. Because last year's hearing was Valentine's Day. So on Monday we'll be back to talk about all of the department. But today is just Mohealth. It's the Todd Richardson show. So I'll get up here in just a second. There are eight books total for social services. This is book seven and eight today. So just 500, a little more than 500 pages of the 1700 that you have to get through today. Total Department of Social Services recommendation from the governor for FY26 is $17.5 billion. Mohealth not division is $15.5 billion of that. So the largest program in terms of the funding. But one of a large number of programs that's operated by social services, including Division of Youth Services and Juvenile Justice, Children's Division, our Family Support Division for Medicaid eligibility. One other important thing to mention is that of that $17.5 billion, only three, I say only. Only in billion should never be in the same sentence. But $3 billion of that is general revenue. So a very small portion of the $17.5 billion. We have just under over 6,700 employees. We have 223 office locations throughout Missouri. And when I come to talk to you on Monday, we're going to talk probably a lot about constituent calls to your office. Because I think the majority of constituent calls coming to your offices are around, not that there aren't any from MohealthNet, but they're mainly centered around what we do in our Family Support Division around Medicaid eligibility or SNAP food benefits eligibility. So just wanted to make sure and set the expectation that we'll have our entire team here in those programs on Monday and be able to answer questions and talk through that budget. But for now, I will answer any questions if there are some. Otherwise, I'll turn it over to Todd and Pat. Representative Mayhew. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to give you a little shout out. This is the best piece of information I've ever received in this building. This is the handiest thing. And for you folks who are not familiar with this card, especially you freshmen, you better get to know it. $17 billion or so in round numbers. When I came in here, Medicaid was pushing 40% of the entire budget, and the only reason it's not more than that right now is because we're still filtering out a bunch of federal money. Most important thing that we do in this building from a budgetary standpoint, I've given entire speeches with nothing but this card in my hand. It is extremely important that you get yourself familiar with this. Thank you very much for this. Thank you, Madam Chair. The social services team did a great job with that. We've got piles of them. I can't take any credit, but we have them available if you'd like more to take back to your office. Thank you. Any further questions from the committee? Seeing none. Thank you. Mr. Richards. Good morning, Madam Chairman. For the record, Todd Richardson, the director of Mohelpnet. I think we're going to start this morning with Director Lubring, who's going to cover just one small piece of book one, which is relevant to what you're going to see in books seven and eight. I'm going to turn it over to Director Lubring to get us started. Thank you. For the record, Patrick Lubring. I am the director for the Division of Finance and Administrative Services. Just so you know, the support books, a lot of them are across the board NDIs that affect several different divisions in the department. We put in the supports books. If you look at your support books, there is on page two an FMAP adjustment. This is a new decision item. What FMAP stands for is the Federal Medical Assistant Percentage. What this is, is every year the amount that the feds participate in Medicaid and several of our other programs such as 4E, there is a percentage calculation. They adjust it every year, which means our federal earnings for these programs go up and down each year. For this next year, it is going to go from 65.31% to 64.44%. It's going to drop 0.87% for the majority of the programs. The CHIP program will drop from 75.72% down to 75.11%, so a 0.61% drop. Even though it's a small percentage drop in our overall program, since we are talking about billions of dollars, it results in a new decision item of $59.8 million, of which $46.1 million of that is GR. It's not all just GR federal, because when we do the FMAP adjustment, we also go through and true up our programs throughout the year, depending on earnings, depending on splits and how there are multiple different splits we are dealing with in some of these appropriations. We have to true them up from year to year. What you will see is a breakdown of that and where they hit in all the different appropriations on page five of the support books. It shows you what our request is line by line. As you also go through the books, and you'll see these throughout the Medicaid book, there will be a corresponding core cut. For example, the first few are in the child welfare and DYS, but if you look at the pharmacy, you're going to see a corresponding core reduction.match in the pharmacy section that matches up to the increased funding for that line but again this is calculated at the federal level and we just have to adjust to it every year. I actually do excuse me could you explain why I'm sorry we're not there yet go ahead keep going sorry I'm getting ahead of myself I'm and and that is just it on the f-map but again it is across the board throughout the entire department so instead of talking it on every single line hitting the same thing we talked about it once at the beginning and that kind of covers the whole for child welfare Medicaid and DYS mr. representative black to inquire madam chair proceed thank you some of them some of the match rates I believe are still unadjusted like the for example the expansion group is that correct correct and other than that are they any that are still fixed like that that are not are not affected yes representative there are some that are fixed which are relatively standard administrative costs for operating the program is a 50-50 match rate our operation of our IT systems is a 75 25 match rate and that's that's held consistent and our our new acquisitions or new systems cost is a 90 10 and as you already mentioned the adult expansion group is at 90 10 the rest are adjusted as director Lubring said based on where the state's income is an economy is relative to other states Thank You directors any other questions all right proceed okay madam chairman members of the committee thank you for the opportunity to present the mo Health Net budget today as director backs mentioned we're going to be covering books seven and eight today I'm going to start on page with our first item which is on page 12 24 of book 7 I do want to mention one thing at the outset it's available online but for those of you that are returning to the committee you will not see printed in the books this year the same program descriptions and the same program measures that we have included in years past which are really helpful to understanding what some of these programs do and what's included in them that programs description book is posted online and I do really encourage the committee as you have questions and want a better understanding of what's included in the Medicaid budget to take a look at that because there's a lot of really helpful information and I think our team does a really good job at putting that stuff together for the mo Health Net section that's that's a couple hundred pages which is not a lot less but it's still a lot less than is included in the in the budget books we're gonna start this year as we always do with our cost to continue new decision item our cost to continue is a combination really of two things it's a combination of the supplemental need which we've already presented to the committee and it's a combination of what we think the ongoing or increased need is going to be for the next fiscal year you're gonna see here in this section a good example of this and you'll see this throughout the day that there are often times where there is a difference and sometimes significant difference between the department request and the governor's recommendation that's a product the fact that the mo Health Net budget is at its core an estimate of what we think the program is going to require over the fiscal year when we start the department recommendations we're usually starting that process in August so immediately after the start of the fiscal year and as we move throughout that fiscal year we will have actual spend numbers on what we're spending and we'll have a much better idea of where things like enrollment and utilization are trending so you're oftentimes going to see that difference and most of the time it's a result of the fact that we've got better numbers by the time we get to gov rec then we had at the time the department put its request together and by the time you guys finish the budget process you'll have better numbers than either of us had when when we started so here the request is 206 million dollars of general revenue total of 1.8 billion including the federal funds if you look over on page 1227 you can see kind of the breakout of where those dollars are going with this most significant pieces of general revenue being in clawback which we'll talk about more when we get to that program section the CCB HO wrap payments rehab services and chip and chip increase is a result of much higher enrollment and chip than we've historically had talk about that again when we get to the the chip section and then obviously the biggest source of increase overall is the adult expansion group so I'll pause there and see if there any questions on the cost to continue and thank you because that was my question I mean I noticed there's but I have also noticed that pharmaceutical is it really fluctuates depending on what the rates are and so we'll talk about that more and when we get there we certainly will yeah all right thank you are there any further questions proceed next section is hold on one second representative boss you may proceed oh I'm sorry Lewis I couldn't see I thought yours I saw your arm representative Lewis quickly I don't know if this is the right place it's more of a global thing you know we were I was here when we you know did the expansion and you know there was this speculation that when we expanded to the adult population that somehow that would result because it was a 90-10 split that that would result in some people ending up in the adult expansion population at 90-10 that you know maybe somehow was being served in a different pool of money and that there would be a overall that might be an overall savings that the budget might actually somehow go down or be reflected at least in GR that there'd be less your has anything like that happened because I don't see it it just seems like everything just is bigger GR is bigger the this the amount of the government you know of government spending in this is bigger everything's just you know larger representative the appreciate the question I think from the department's perspective our view and our estimates on what the cost of Medicaid expansion would be have been fairly consistent enrollment today is higher than we would have anticipated back when when the voters were first considering that measure I think our initial estimates were that somewhere around 250 maybe top in 300,000 Missourians would ultimately be on the expansion program and we ballparked cost then at about you know two and a half billion dollars with 10% of that coming from the state so our initial cost estimates were somewhere in that 200 to 250 million dollars of general revenue range we're higher than that today we're higher than that today because enrollment is higher than we would have anticipated back then we're sitting somewhere around 320,000 let's just round it to there at the end of month January so that that difference represents a much higher baseline starting number overall for the cost of the program meaning that 10% is a higher number than we would have originally anticipated your question gets to have we seen any movement in in population first you can't move people from one eligibility category to another and CMS certainly frowns on moving people if you're just doing it to do to get a better better match rate that's one of the hard conditions of Medicaid expansion so we don't see a lot of that movement if you look at our newly eligible population of people coming into the program I think there are some indications that you've seen a small portion of the individuals that might have otherwise come in to the disabled the age-blind disabled category disability being the biggest one that number of people who are on Medicaid as a result of disability is down a little bit and the expansion number is up a little bit which we can't draw a direct line between those two but I think it is a fair it is a fair assumption to make that some of those people who've come on to the adult expansion group otherwise would have come in through the disability door for lack of a better explanation is that netting out the state's growth and cost no it's it's not but I do think there's some indication that there's been a little bit of that happening I think what you're saying is it sounds like maybe 300 million GR dollars increase right that's that 300 million that was GR dollars that went into the adult expansion maybe 350 that total amount of GR isn't there for other purposes because we're using it for the expanded Medicaid expansion to I I think to be clear right now the state's been using enhanced f-map dollars so the extra earnings that we got because we got a higher match rate during the public health emergency and we got a higher match rate for expanding Medicaid those are the dollars that are using being used right now to fund the state share we're gonna run out of those dollars and you know I can't give you an exact timeline of when we're gonna run out of those dollars but let's just say somewhere probably really close to the beginning of FY 27 you know up or down a little bit depending on where we're at Roman they would think it may be old for five years for that enhanced f-map to cover the cost now it's more like two to three years yeah I think when we talked with the committee last year we anticipated that we'd be probably well into 27 before we would exhaust all those funds it'll be earlier than that now hard for us to give you an exact estimate of when that's going to be because enrollment fluctuations and other factors really do have a really significant impact on what that overall spend is going to be but that's that's where we've got a ballpark today appreciate it thanks representative Mayhew Thank You madam chair so this is gonna be a significant GR pickup once we run out of somebody else's money and but it sounds to me like you know we were kind of knocking around those numbers of the last couple of years of about a 300 million dollar hole in the budget butfrom what you just said, I'm just doing rough math in my head and Thinking that because of this increase in enrollment that we're gonna be Quite a bit north of 300 million. Is that was that the prediction? I Don't like to make predictions And I don't have a crystal ball I can tell you that we have not had a stable period of Medicaid enrollment in Missouri for Probably eight or nine years all the way back when director Lubring had a little bit more hair and was trying to run the family support division We went through a period where we were not able to do annual renewals back in 15 and 16 We came out of that and we tried to catch everybody up by doing those annual renewals and right before Kovat happened We were starting to flatten out and get stable enrollment again right around 900,000 people in the program Kovat happens the public health emergency and the continuous eligibility requirement causes a slow and steady uptick in Enrollment and then the voters approved Medicaid expansion in 21, which starts to add people to the program Once we just about get done with getting everybody through that system public health emergency expires But director Evans and her team restart annual renewals and now we've seen enrollment come down a little bit. So I Get a little bit cautious about making predictions on where I think enrollment is going to be a year or 18 months out Because I don't know where the new baseline is in terms of our enrollment I think our projections and what you're going to see in this budget are built on a relatively flat Enrollment for most of our populations and a little bit of an increase in In the expansion population because that's what we've seen over the last several months I can't guarantee that that's going to be the trend going forward I think it's certainly possible that we could see that enrollment come down I think it's possible if we could see enrollment continue to come down in some of our other eligibility categories as well For the purpose of trying to present to you all a responsible budget that we think funds the program We've anticipated just a little bit of growth in that expansion population. So so how many of how much of that? unknown in the in the movement of those curves is It are unknowns that surround potential waivers. We might be asking for Representative none none of that would be impacted by the waivers that we're looking at at least not in the budget that we're presenting To you today. So our our eligibility categories are pretty well set our waivers do give us the ability To cover existing eligibility categories in different ways or with different services But unlike some other states, we don't make really heavy use of 1115 waivers That's the ones you hear about in the news all the time We don't make really heavy use of 1115 waivers in Missouri do make use of waivers and and flexibility that CMS affords But not in that way that would really expand coverage to a different universe of people that are that are eligible today And so from a budgetary standpoint This has been a concern of mine for a long time About this big huge unknown that we're looking at and a significant GR pickup whenever we're likely to see flattening of the Improvements in the economy or maybe even a downturn Which would then tend to exacerbate the problem? Additionally with new enrollments on top of the reduction in revenue. And so this is a this is something that Moving forward This my last term here on at least on this side of the building, but I'm a I'm afraid that this is that 800 pound gorilla in the room that's gonna gonna hit us pretty hard here and in a probably a shorter timeline than we all Thought thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Mr. Madam chair Representative Chapel Thank You madam chair So I don't mean to correct my colleague I know the representative Mayhew knows this but that other people's money is our money, too right so when that Runs out. Maybe you answered him and I didn't catch it. I don't know I heard about the Population on the rolls and all that and that's good When that money runs out how much roughly do we anticipate the state will be obligated to pick up in GR? Three three hundred fifty million dollars is probably the rough ballpark estimate if Population rolls stay static, right? and If if not, obviously then it goes up from there But we're deriving money from the national government at a rate of three hundred fifty three hundred million roughly now and we anticipate that's going to go away in two years and Given the givens of increases trending the way that they are we're looking at three hundred fifty million dollars That's going to be added to the GR requirements of the state sometime in FY 27 Yes representative, that's that that summary is basically right The the important note that the in the enhanced f-map earnings Came to the state as a result of the continuous eligibility requirement of PHE So by not removing anybody from the program federal government recognized that hey the state's going to have increased Medicaid costs by making that decision which we did An enrollment is going to go up and so we're going to allow the state's to earn a higher matching percentage I think the state made a really smart Financial decision and I'm not sure if you looked at some other state budgets that you'd find The decisions to be as fiscally sound as as the ones made here But we set that money aside and we said, you know, the voters approved Medicaid expansion We know we're going to have the cost and so we're going to set that money aside So that we've got that portion of the state share that 10% That we don't have to at least initially dip into general revenue for so we've got that set aside And when that's exhausted that state share is going to have to be covered and that's going to be 10% of the cost and that's likely to have to come from general revenue or one of the other revenue sources that we use and that set aside of 10% that's been done for how many years 22 So since the beginning since we expanded it's it's been 90% 44 years. Yeah, roughly So that'll get us because of the increased trends that'll get us three three and a half years But 2030 is going to be rough Representative to be clear. I mean we will exhaust that federal set-aside We think sometime in fiscal year 27, so you're including it in that calculation. Yeah, so that's the general revenue portion That's the state share. So we talk about Medicaid. We'll talk about general revenue We'll talk about state share and they're used interchangeably in a lot of contexts But not in some others in this case our state share is actually coming from those dollars that we earned Through kovat as a result of keeping Medicaid eligibility at a higher level so, you know, I'm just a simple hillbilly from down home and I Haven't been here, but you know, this is my third year, but I have found that Almost universally everybody who said don't worry. It'll work itself out. They all have one thing in common They will be termed out before this hits And I think those of us who Potentially could still be around we need to be very very cautious About what's coming? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Madam chair representative bugle Yeah more of a comment than a question But just for new members So Medicaid expansion something that we've obviously this body's talked about for my four years in the General Assembly We've had some very heated discussions and it's right to ask questions about how we're gonna fund it and to look to what that cost Is going to be in subsequent years, but I also want to just remind the committee that there's not really Correct me if I'm wrong not really anything we can do because the Supreme Court did rule in fact that if we have a Medicaid program this group has to be included and So even if we like it or dislike it I just wanted to set the stage for everybody that our hands are somewhat tied in terms of what we can do And I'm not advocating that. I want to obviously I'm a proponent of Medicaid expansion I'm glad more people in this state have access to health care But I just want to remind or echo to the committee that correct me if I'm wrong director There's nothing we can do outside of fund this if we want to have any Medicaid program Because the Supreme Court was clear that if we have a Medicaid program this group has to be included just like any other group unless do you anticipate any change at the federal level or Since I didn't want to make predictions about enrollment I'm certainly not going to predict what the White House or Congress is gonna do as of now But as of right now with the program structure the way it is we are operating the assumption It's going to continue to be at 9010 In terms of what the legislature can or can't do I think that's a question you guys have to answer I don't know that I want to pass judgment on it I can tell you the constitutional language is very clear in what our responsibility is and our responsibility was to apply To expand Medicaid which we did and to offer that program with similar benefits to a benchmark marketplace plan Whether the legislature has to fund it or not is not really our purview but our responsibility right now is the Constitution is written is to provide that coverage and to Ask you guys for the state share to fund the the state portion of that cost Yeah, and to your comment about whether or not we have to fund it Obviously, we don't have to I mean we wouldn't have to fund a Medicaid program But if we have a Medicaid program we have we cannot discriminate against The Medicaid exchange on population if you have a Medicaid program those funds have to be equilaterally distributed amongst all eligibility groups, correct Representative I I've recently read the Supreme Court's opinion And as I'm not sitting on the other side of the chair today And I'm not sitting on the Missouri Supreme Court. I don't know that I want to offer an interpretation of what that means or doesn't mean The constitutional language is clear that we cannot impose we being the agency cannot impose Additional requirements on eligibility that we're not extending to other similarsituated populations and we can't make coverage decisions based solely on the fact that someone's in the expansion eligibility category versus another eligibility category. So that that part's clear in terms of what the legislature's appropriation powers are and what the limitations or expansiveness of that that's may have may used to have been my purview but it's not now. Yeah but there was an attempt by this body to not fund the adult expansion group and that was struck down and we were told that we needed to fund it. In summary that's fair to say. The the Supreme Court made a ruling that money stood appropriated for Medicaid expansion not not stands appropriate in the same way we might think about it with MoDOT but that in the context of the way the General Assembly passed the budget that year that there were funds appropriated for the Medicaid program and therefore for expansion. You're exactly right in that. What that means is not something you know going forward and future decisions that you guys would would make or not make. I just don't want to pass judgment on what the outcome of those might be. Okay thanks. Representative Brown you recognized for an inquiry. Thank You Mr. Chairman. I don't know if this is the right time or not but you brought up 1115 waivers. We had another hearing where we were talking about county reimbursements for prisoners things like that. Maybe you can explain a little bit the inmate exclusion program. Happy to talk happy to talk about that and and also you know certainly encourage you guys to speak with our colleagues at Department of Corrections as well. The federal government's opened up an opportunity. Generally the rule in Medicaid is you cannot provide Medicaid coverage. Medicaid cannot pay for services for someone who is incarcerated. There are exceptions to that if they're outside of the jail for a period of time. I think it's 24 hours. We could pay for an inpatient hospital stay but in general we can't pay for those services. Federal CMS our partners the federal government opened up an opportunity last year may have been the year before that to allow limited Medicaid coverage for offenders pre-release. So before their release for a period of say 90 days we could use Medicaid to cover some of their health care costs. We have been in the process of exploring that with our colleagues at Department of Corrections and what that that would mean. It would also be available if we were to make that choice to offenders who are in county county jails. So that opportunity is there. We're trying to to be prepared to submit the documents to the federal government if it's something that you guys authorized but any waiver request that we submit has to be authorized by the General Assembly in some form or fashion either statutory authorization or a budget authorization. Thank you and I appreciate that and this is even you know what we kept learning in the committee was this this is prisoners who have not even been convicted yet right. I mean if they just go into county jail for more than 30 days and we have numerous counties that are holding people for a year or more but they become ineligible for Medicaid then the county's picking up a big health care bill. So if somebody could talk to me offline maybe on how we could get this going. Yeah I'm happy to do that and bring the team over and visit a little bit more about where we are. Perfect thank you. Representative Caberleau you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank You Mr. Chair. Just for clarifications for the expanded Medicaid that was recently added is it a hundred and eighty five percent that on this little chart that we look at is that where they fall? 138 is the Medicaid expansion. Okay okay on there's on there because I don't really know anybody that's on that but does their insurance work kind of like ours in the private sector? Do they have a deductible to meet or anything like that? If so what is that? No deductible on Medicaid. We do have our Medicaid expansion population and what we call managed care so there is a you know one of three private companies that helps us operate the Medicaid program and so it does work a little bit like the private insurance would be in that they there is an entity that helps manage that health care benefit with some exceptions and we were required by the language of the Constitution to have benefits similar to the benchmark marketplace ACA marketplace plan. Thank you very much. Good afternoon director how are you or is it still morning? Good morning Mr. Chair. Yeah I could see you. So I don't know if we have any more inquiries on this we're on the cost to continue presently so I arrived just just in time great we don't have to come back and I tried to inquire here to ascertain what really has been discussed in my absence so I hope hopefully I'm not being duplicative anything here that you might have already discussed but does this cost to continue reflect the FMAP adjustment that we are experiencing for this year? The FMAP adjustments are actually back in book one it's in the it's at the start of this book book one for the department. But does this does the does this cost to continue NDI reflect the change in the FMAP does that does that or is it in relation to the FMAP adjustment in book one and you combine those and then it is reflective? It is yes it is reflected in both because there be the federal reduction you'll see in book seven and eight and the GR pickup you're gonna see in in book one. So you have to take them together though it's not correct okay all right. What about the if I'm reading this right or understanding correctly the request the for AEG the assumption I think on the population for FY 26 is maybe somewhere around three hundred and forty thousand or so as far as the projections for FY 26 and caseload which you know the actuals and you know we get the nice little email those of us that asked to be on it that seems to go to a lot of people you know about the caseload and separated by you know pregnant women age blind disabled and expansion group you know is on there and month by month and you know the historical trend and all of that you know you look at the actuals you know for for recent times you know it's it's more around three hundred thousand you know give or take so just curious and of course we got redeterminations going on so on so forth right I mean is that is that overly ambitious as far as the projection are you fairly confident that will we would experience that in FY 26 and and you know why is that the projection is the question obviously I'll express the same lack of conviction and where the enrollment projections are to you that I expressed representative Mayhew which is you know I don't know that that we are confident that that's where the enrollment is ultimately going to land you know if you if I look back at our at our enrollment starting the fiscal year we start a fiscal year at about three hundred nine thousand in the expansion category you know we're sitting here end of month July at three hundred and twenty nine thousand so you know if I just draw a trend line from there and we project you know some continued growth but it probably slowing from that period of time I think the 340 ish number is is certainly reasonable and probably the most likely of the outcomes we're as as you know from our discussion in previous budget years we're never a hundred percent confident in what the enrollment numbers are going to look like but we try to give the committee the best information we've got and based on you know that trend line that's where we've got the projection where we do you know I'll also note that if you look you know individual months within within that July to January time period you're gonna see you know months where we were lower and months where we saw decline in enrollment or months where we saw an increase in enrollment think we were as low as 295 at one point during this fiscal year but if I just take that 300 and I draw you know trend line to 329 where we were into January that's that's basically how you get to the projection thank you for that anybody else have anything at this moment in time on the cost to continue everything behind you may proceed with an inquiry Thank You mr. chair good morning how are you good morning representative I'm doing well thank you so I'm doing my math here and the one thing that I haven't heard us talk about is the impact of minimum wage increases that will happen I see on your sheet that you have calculated for the 1375 an hour but then we're also going to be rolling into the next year right with this budget with an increase in minimum wage have you factored in to how that might impact your enrollment that's gonna be something that's probably more in the purview of director Evans than it is me I doubt that the department's had a chance yet we have not at Edmo health net but I don't know if the department has had a chance yet to do what kind of any kind of analysis on how that would impact eligibility not just for Medicaid but other social services programs yeah at this point we haven't really looked at that per se across the board we keep that in mind on our projections but there's so many things that can affect when you're looking at the population because it's the overall economy you know things that happen at the federal level that really affect our population because typically if the economy goes up our population goes down if the economy goes down our population goes up I would say that affects it more than say the minimum wage when we've looked historically right this is just probably the first time we in a little bit we've had such a significant jump and and I don't I'm not saying one way or the other I just think it's something that we also need to be thinking about when we're talking about our numbers moving forward and that may actually reduce some of the enrollment I meanthe way to this also works is if we increase wages and people don't have you know they're able to do private pay so there's multiple factors right yeah we keep it in mind but I don't know that it's you know if you can do like a straight formula on something like that to say okay it's gonna affect X percent okay thank you thank you mr. chair representative black you have an agreement proceed thank you just a question about how this books organized so for example on page 1227 we've got cost to continue for a bunch of departments I mean a different programs and then following that we'll have ND eyes for specific programs that may or may not have a similar name how does this work together for example managed care actuarial with regard to what we see on 1227 how do these things all fit together yeah what you're seeing the cost to continue or the things that are what I would call cross-cutting so they affect multiple sections in in the budget and really what we're accounting for here is is the unfunded difference between where we stopped last year and the need that we're going to have to finish out FY 25 and what the expected need is in FY 26 you're gonna see further ND eyes in the book that are going to reflect what what additional we need in those siloed program areas for FY 26 but here is a combination of those two things and this is the areas that are cross-cutting multiple sections of our budget thank you and for example as the illustration you can maybe this helps a little bit more for on page 1227 governor's rec on this cost to continue for hospital GR shows up as zero and if I read that right and AG shows up as zero can you explain how those numbers come in that way on this page yeah with respect to hospital representative that's a result of what I talked about at the outset which is we have better projection numbers at this point so we're no longer anticipating an additional need in hospital in hospital dot in service in dollars for hospital services that we might have been projecting at the beginning of the fiscal year before we had better estimate numbers so we're seeing utilization be down and therefore we no longer have that that GR need with regard to X the adult expansion group zero dollar GR line it's a product of how we are accounting for those enhanced F map dollars that came into the state and so right now because we're using those the state share which usually at least partially comes from general revenue it's actually federal dollars that came into the state we set aside to pay for some of these costs thank you on page make sure I'm looking at the right one here I guess you can see it on page 1231 well first okay so 1231 on the governor's recommendation for pharmacy it looks like there's reductions there in GR and federal totaling you know 69 million if you look at that piece on eleven point seven hundred but then on 1234 in box for estimated laps to be core reduced there's a number of items there including pharmacy 88 million and federal help me what what is the difference between those two first of all we'll make sure we understand that I may have to I should have introduced them at the outset but it may have to use my phone a friend and ask Tony bright who's our Medicaid CFO to come up and walk us through on what what that difference may be you hello so for page that I'm Tony bright CFO with mo health net page 1234 the 88.4 million and in federal reduction there represents the laps that we anticipate having at the end of FY 25 the information on page 1231 is really related to caseload utilization decreases that we see in FY 25 that would offset some of these other items in terms of the unfunded cost to continue and the unfunded specialty p.m. p.m. amounts okay well let me take let's start on 1234 and try to work I guess one at a time here on that one that 88 you're saying it says estimate laps to be core reduced and there's not just this item you got more X you got other items there even hospital you know the last item there and and all the others are either exclusively GR or GR and federal this one is just federal and so is the cost to continue considering this lapse amount and accounting for that or is this reflecting a core reduction I'm gonna see in the pharmacy line later or what what so so the if you look at so to answer maybe make make it clear when we do our projections you're looking at pharmacy right and so that's the additional dollars we need and so they kind of lay out here's some offsetting things on here against our original sort of we had some increases and decreases that affect the overall projection so you're kind of laying them out and so we did have a drop in some of our utilization or inflation but then there were some other things that pushed our need up the net result of that line is eight point two million dollars GR what you could have I mean I guess what we could have done in that line is also added that 88 up there and then you would had a positive and a negative but since this is a new decision item we only do positives and then you'll see a corresponding core reduction on page do do do well 34 yeah on on 88 but once you get to the pharmacy section you're gonna see a core cut of 88 million so I will see the pharmacy yeah you'll see and in there are the core reduction in pharmacy and it will be 80 and so that's true of all of these yeah I'll see him and it'll be the same from ORX that core reduction will be reflected in that core section hospital etc etc so this is really the two third or 1234 that table is just really supplementary information it's not necessarily reflected in the cost to continue as in you know if it wasn't for that 88 million the pharmacy number in this cost to continue would actually be 88 million more and this federal amounts to the 1.6 billion it'd be 1.7 billion right and so what we're trying to show here is like if you look at the bottom bottom if I can speak correctly bottom of page 1233 that's sort of the total cost to continue request right and again an NDI is new decision items we can only ask for increases but if you look across the board in other areas we are decreasing so if you want to look at the sort of the net change overall like if you get to the bottom line you would take those core reductions into account when you look at the budget so the NDI for the cost to continue is 1.8 billion right if you consider the core reductions that are reflected elsewhere at the end of the day the actual increase to the program and authority requested is 1.6 billion roughly correct correct I understand I got that okay that I I don't know it is at least I think I understand at this point so I understand much better than I did that's helpful appreciate you walking through that with me on now let's go back to 12 31 though specifically as it relates to reductions you know here in pharmacy showing 69 million there you say caseload utilization inflation and I'm kind of wondering of course you got a core reduction in pharmacy to only on federal though I mean is pharmacy really cost less hard for me to believe are we experiencing less federal revenue as it relates to pharmacy is that happening here in any way representative I think it is helpful maybe if we on this question to flip over to the to the core and look at that tab because I do think that what you're going to see is that is that trend and you know we talked about some of this last year but I think the state has done a really good job at trying to be efficient with our pharmacy benefit and that has led to in some cases pretty significant reductions in our total spend of course there's also a caseload drop from where we were you know in FY 22 and 23 that's impacting that as well so 1364 you can see the actual expenditures for 22 23 and 24 and there's been a fairly steady and meaningful decline and what that that total spend is some of that's been driven by better policy decisions and and you know being efficient with the cost and some of that has been driven by enrollment being down from where it would have been at its high watermark okay yeah 1364 again if you didn't hear committee I appreciate that that is helpful to see and helps put that in perspective so there's been again just to be clear there's been no change in federal policy or any reduction we've seen any federal revenue as it relates to pharmacy okay thank you I know we've you know obviously this is a big item we needneed to take as much time as necessary on this one. That's very important. Costs continue. Anybody have anything additional on this at this time? Seeing none. For now, anyway, we can continue. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're going to move to 1235. This is our NDI for our managed care actuarial increase. As the committee will be aware, we're required to set our rates for our managed care companies in an actuarial sound manner. We go through a process that we do every year of looking backwards at how much did the health plan spend in the previous fiscal year, how much do we project that they're going to spend in the next fiscal year, and then we set the rates to have enough to cover what the expenses that they're going to incur over that year is. The three biggest factors that impact this rate are the acuity of the population that's in managed care, how many services are being utilized, and what are the unit costs for those services. Here, this request is based on a 6.2 percent increase. That 6.2 percent increase in the managed care actuarial rate is driven by two things. One of the things I mentioned, but then also the possibility that the CCBHO or the certified community behavioral health organization demonstration program might go away. If that were to happen, the state share and the costs of that CCBHO program would go up, and we would need some more dollars in our managed care rate to accommodate the end of that demonstration. We've included it here. We don't know whether the demonstration is going to be extended or not. If the demonstration went away, or the demonstration were extended, this rate would be significantly lower. Happy to answer any questions on the actuary. Do you have the information with you what the actuarial increase, the projected increase was for FY25, and what the actual increase was, so the projected and the actual? I don't have it, Mr. Chairman, right in front of me, but I bet we can get it for you before the hearing is out. If somebody's got that, just let us know at some point through the day. The $317 million in change, the NDI, this is a projection, is that correct? Correct. What happens if we don't fund this? You'd ask for it to be trued up in a supplemental? Yes, Mr. Chairman, same thing that's happening this year, which is that because the General Assembly did not fund the managed care actuary last year, we'd be back here asking for a supplemental, and then we'd be asking for that to be included in the cost to continue as we are here, so that would be the process. You mentioned that's the process we're undertaking this year, perhaps not the process undertaken in previous years, perhaps not the preference of the department given the request here, I don't know, maybe you feel this is just still the normative approach. We've some number of years ago took the approach with philosophically, long before, it's been the approach since I've been here, I don't know who decided with DMH overtime, General Assembly wanted to keep an eye on that, and so there's always a supplemental for that. They do have some overtime core, but we just know that we're going to see it in the supplemental. I wonder if this is, and again, I'm curious, I guess if the projections are fairly accurate, but I'm just curious as to historically, how much do the actuals vary from the projections? Is this really going to be the number, is what I'm trying to get at? There are always, Mr. Chairman, going to be differences in that projected and what the actual is going to be, and we have endeavored to, if we're going to put the actuarial increase in front of the General Assembly, we're going to err and have historically erred on the higher side of what that estimate could be, because we want to make sure that there's enough there to actually do the increase we need and not have to come back and say, oh, well, we way undershot what that estimate was going to be for the managed care actuarial. We've always tried to err on the high side of that, but we can give you a comparison of what was appropriated versus what the actuals are. I believe that we have, and it may be in the program description book, we have a reflection of what those appropriated amounts were based on in terms of percentage increase. I can lay those up against what our actual increases were so you can have that comparison. Thank you. Representative Chapley, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just to piggyback off the Chair's comments, I think in years past, the departments have really tried to avoid supplemental requests at all times because, frankly, they found them to be harder to have fulfilled than just asking for it up front, and there's a sense of security and planning and all of that. I think it could be argued that this committee and all considerations are more amenable to supplemental requests if not your department in particular, but all departments did not shoot for the moon every single year. So if there was a, here's the core, we're not asking for anything right now, but please understand, should things change, we'll be back with a supplemental, and by the way, at that time, we'll have data. We'll have facts and figures and the exact amount necessary, and I think that under current guidance of the Chair, the idea of supplementals is not necessarily a negative concept. But you said something as well, Mr. Director, that I just want to make sure I understand. So this item is, you said, we calculate how much the managed care systems across the state have spent and appropriate what we think they're going to spend in the future. What's the mechanism by which those expenditures are examined for their need, not just the accuracy, but the need at the individual managed care system level? Representative, we employ an actuary that does the analysis for us on that, and we obviously have closely reviewed the data that they have. The bulk of what is going to be appropriated in the managed care bucket of dollars, whether we're talking in the program dollars or we're talking here in the actuarial increase, is going to go to pay for medical services. And so when we're evaluating that need, we do a historical look back to say, how much in medical services did they pay out the previous year? And that forms the baseline of what we would expect next year, assuming that nothing major has changed. We'll then take a look at what we call trend. And that trend can be trend in one of two things. It can be trend in unit costs. So has the cost of those services gone up because providers have asked for higher, you know, contractual rates with our managed care companies? And is the utilization per member going up? Are more people going to the doctor, more people going to the dentist, more people accessing behavioral health care services? I mention those because we've seen increases in those in trend over the last year. We'll then take that and we'll apply that to the different eligibility categories. And we actually look at this all the way down to a regional level. So rates will be set regionally. That will inform what percentage increase we think needs to be applied to that per member, per month rate that we're paying the managed care companies. We also will look throughout the fiscal year and we'll track their medical loss ratio, which is how much of the dollars that we gave them did they spend on medical care. And we'll make sure that's in line with what the state's expectation is. We want them to have enough to pay those claims. We have to by federal law. We also have a floor on that at 85%. So we'll look at that medical loss ratio throughout the year and say, you know, is our rate hitting the mark or is it not? So I hear what you're saying and I appreciate all of that. But adding up the totals is part of it. But is Missouri the only state in the union wherein there is no waste, fraud, or abuse? Representative, separate mechanisms on waste, fraud, and abuse for sure. So what we're doing that desk review to do is the amounts paid sort of form the baseline. We require all our managed care companies to engage in their own fraud, waste, and abuse detection. We have some back end stuff that we do. That's what I'm asking. On the top of it. Yeah. And so obviously those amounts. And then we also apply what we call efficiency adjustments to our managed care rates. And that's a mechanism by which we'll look at what we say the average number of avoidable emergency department visits based on the data that our actuary has. And we'll actually downwardly adjust the rate to say our expectation is that you're going to be helping us weed out those unnecessary emergency department visits. So we use the combination of those things to set the rate. The last mechanism that's really designed to try to incentivize the managed care companies to push for better performance is a tool we call our performance withhold. So we'll take a small portion of that rate that we're going to pay them and we'll say, we're going to hold that back. We're not going to pay it to you in the regularly cycle payments like we do. And we're going to assess where you are on these outcome measures. And we use a HEDIS measure, which is a commonly reported medical outcome measure. And we'll say, how well did you do against these measures? And did you meet the program targets that we had set? If you did, then you can earn those dollars back. If you didn't, then the state...It's going to withhold those and we're going to expect better performance going forward. So we use a combination of those to try to land on what we think is a fair rate because we don't want to underfund them, but we also want to make sure that they're operating as efficiently as they possibly can. You know, for most governmental programs, the vast majority of people, whether they are recipients of the funds or individuals that are handling the mechanics of the program, the vast majority of people are honest, sincere, hardworking, dedicated individuals to the process. But all systems would be perfect if it weren't for the people involved, right? Sure. I mean, that's just the reality. Where there's human error and there are the individuals who do try to defraud the system, but you know, if I had every single screwdriver set that a public works department employee of mine had lost over the years, I could pay for a bunch of this just from that. And I just, I have concerns when we're talking about billions of dollars where the watchdog aspect of it comes in. You're going to get to hear on Monday from one of our sister divisions within the department, which is Medicaid Audit and Compliance that handles a lot of the provider fraud investigations. We also have folks who are dedicated to looking at participant fraud as well. Several years ago, I think it was back during the Nixon administration, we separated the Audit and Compliance and sort of the majority of the fraud, waste, and abuse stuff into EMAC, which is a separate division. And they do an incredible job, both now on the front end and on the back end. And increasingly, we want to focus on trying to stop that fraud before it happens. We're doing some of that work on our side in pharmacy, trying to do prepay kind of activity to limit that kind of fraud or abuse in the program. So I know that Director Ferrari will have some more to say about that when he comes on Monday, too. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Martin, you recognize for an inquiry? Yeah, while we're still in this general section, on page 1227, just make sure I'm understanding what we're talking about here. General overall request, $1.28 billion. Governor moves that up to $1.82 billion. And that, and he's, obviously, you got the breakdowns there. Is there, what are some of the explanations that are there? Is there a page I'm missing, I'm just, you can direct me to that kind of explains why the governor said, okay, like on CHIP, where you recommend this, he says no, or whatever, or he changed it, things like that. I think the biggest difference, Representative, is, and let's just take CHIP and the adult expansion group and contrast those two. So with CHIP, at the time we did the department recommendation, we were seeing a pretty steady increase in enrollment. By the time we got to GOVEREC, that had flattened out, and so we lowered the projection on what enrollment's going to be, so that brings the GOVEREC number down. By contrast, if you look at the AEG number, that's a situation where, as we got later in the fiscal year, we were seeing enrollment go up, and so you see the GOVEREC be higher than the department request. Right. So the department request, when did that come out, then? When was that? Department request is in September. Okay, in September, and the governor's, then, is November, December? December, yeah. December, okay. September, okay, that difference there, okay. Thank you very much. Representative Hausman, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a question. This is a federal mandate, and to my understanding, the federal mandates have been changed a little bit? Is this requiring more steps, and will it, is it to, like, prevent fraud? On the actuarial increase? The actuarial, there's a federal requirement that if you're going to use managed care, that you have to set those rates in an actuarially sound manner. I don't think those requirements have changed at all. There are programmatic changes that will happen at the federal level that will ultimately impact those managed care rates, so there is some of that, but the requirement to review the rates annually and to set them in an actuarially sound manner has been a feature since, as long as I'm aware that managed care has been around. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Okay, so a couple things, kind of back to my earlier inquiry on, so look at 1243 with me. So, for this, on the actuarial increase, page 1243, there's a box about the FMAP there, and correct me if I'm wrong, you look at regular 64.658%, that is the new FMAP adjustment. That's the new FMAP? Yeah, that'll be the blended FMAP. Okay. So now go back to 1235, and I know the federal is skewed because we're using the 10% AEG, you know, enhanced FMAP, I think is still carrying that, correct? Yes. Yeah, so that's kind of, it appears that the federal match is greater than maybe it is, although those are federal dollars, it's federal earnings, it's not a match, we already earned it and matched it, but it's showing up as federal. So it's skewing it a little bit, and I haven't done the math, but that's 10% right there. But you look at your GR column, it's 67.5 million, but you look at department request, it's 66.3 million. So it would appear to me, perhaps, and with, I don't know what else to make of the column indicating the new FMAP on 1243, that reflected in this NDI is reflective of the new FMAP, as in a higher GR pull, but I thought on the overall cost to continue, you told me that the enhanced, or not the enhanced FMAP, the greater call on GR due to the FMAP decreasing as a percentage was reflected in book one in the overall, you know, DI for the FMAP adjustment. But my question is, is that wholly inclusive of all FMAP adjustments throughout the entirety of the program, or are there FMAP adjustments made in other NDIs in other places, such as this one? Okay, and maybe I didn't explain it right, and Tony can correct me if I'm wrong. So basically, when we do the FMAP NDI, that is sort of our core programs, right? So we rebase all the core programs to get them to the right percentage. The new decision items are also affected by the FMAP, so say, 100 bucks, the first one, when we came in, we would ask for it, like, whatever, the 6518, and now it's at the 64%. So the NDI changes slightly, too, due to the change in the FMAP. Okay, so I understood you to say that the NDI for the FMAP adjustment was not only core, but also NDIs, so it is only core for the FMAP adjustment in book one, and the NDI is, or if there are NDIs separate and apart from that, it is reflective of the new FMAP rate at the GOVREC number. Yeah, I believe that's correct. Double checking. Yeah, so you've got to add them both, and maybe I misspoke, you've got to add them both together to see the full, because otherwise, you know, we've done this both ways in the past, and sometimes, then as you guys get better projections and you change that, you're going to change it on, then you don't have to go back and change the FMAP and the new decision item, you just update your new decision item. Does it factor in core reductions? Is that, is the new rate adjusted there for the core? For the NDIs, for the core, they true up the cores, but the NDIs, no, so if you cut back on the NDIs or you did other cuts, you would have to true those up. I'm talking about the core reductions you've done throughout the budget. Yeah, those should be lapsed and should be assuming the new FMAP rate. Okay, I think you just said the answer at the very end, but let me make sure I've got it right. You have a, and I get it's book one, it's global, and for the core, but I don't know if you're going to be here when we get to book one, and so we've got all the right people here and I think, right, to talk about this, and I want to make sure I understand it. So you have the FMAP adjustment for the core, and that is totally reflective of the NDIs, not the NDIs, but the core reductions are taken into account before you did that NDI for FMAP globally. Does that make sense? And I'm trying to ask this. I think that's correct. I just want to double check for answer. So that would be correct. They do take into account the core cut before they do the FMAP on the core. Thank you. Okay. And I appreciate you bearing with me. Yeah. No, it's part challenging for me to articulate that. It does get complicated, and like I said, we do it either way, so that way as you guys do core. Because if it wasn't, that could influence the math, and I just wasn't sure about the timeline because obviously, you know, you all would have reflected this in the department request if you knew what the FMAP adjustment was, but you didn't have that at the time, which is why that's reflecting the governor's request, as well as maybe better projections and numbers. And so I was just curious if core reductions are factored in or not, and you're saying they are. We're on the managed care actuarial increase. I think we've exhausted the inquiries on this Thank you, and we can continue and as we get new projections and stuff that way going forward you guys can adjust the core or the NDIs or whatever Decisions you make one more actually before we move on and I just noticed this as I was coming trying to Identify that that last question we were on on the and now I'm Trying to figure out where that item was here Okay, I'm sorry 1239 On that at the very top there for You Show me healthy babies, and that's not the only place it's reflected Make sure I'm looking at the right one. Okay. I'm sorry It's on 1242 is the one that I had seen and and the trend for deliveries, and it's that top item so it's deliveries managed care and The total for the trend is twenty two Point seven almost point eight million dollars, and that's again at the top of page 1242 What is the cause of that trend have you identified? Is it just? Inflation and costs and or are more babies being delivered on managed care Or mo health net in Missouri. What is or maybe a little bit of both? What what's what's what's causing the trend there specifically? It's it's not more because we're setting this on a per member. You know per month basis So it's not directly our managed care rates will never be directly influenced by more people being on They sometimes are indirectly influenced because The more people are on the program generally speaking the lower the acuity is mr. Man, I'll have to go back to our rate letter, which I have in front of me We probably don't have the time to do it now and give you the factors that are driving that one specifically But in general that's going to be reflective of the fact that we're seeing an Increase in the unit cost in that popular within that that area We're gonna see an increase in the unit cost being paid for those services and to clarify My question I'm not asking about you know and I get the per member per month, but about you know total number of people on Medicaid I guess once the child's born presumably they're on Medicaid if the mother's on Medicaid, but is if we were Having if more babies were being born on Medicaid that would be reflected Ultimately in an actuarial increase right because that's a driver and cost right if you know we had you know on average Per member one baby was born every year, but now all of a sudden three babies are being born I mean, that's gonna happen. That's cost more right like that's gonna. Ultimately be reflected and be a cost driver right assuming that that They're not people are coming on to the program as a result of the of the pregnancy which does frequently happen So if it's adding people to the program it's going to show up in in overall cost for the managed care line But it's not necessarily going to impact the per member rate If the ratio of people utilizing those services goes up than that would and so that that Utilization and they generally when Mercer does that calculation they look at utilization per thousand members So as you're describing if that utilization per thousand members of delivery services goes up And there's going to be a corresponding increase in the rate Okay, appreciate that clarification, and I am interested on just the trend generally you follow up with that information. That's fine Could you also and perhaps it's in the program book or somewhere, but could someone also provide. I'm just generally curious about The number could you maybe go back three years or something and the number of babies born on Medicaid and that number is probably somewhere out there But could I'd be just curious about what the trend is or isn't as if even if that's not driving cost just generally curious Yeah, what that is we definitely can do that and mr. Chairman Tony Bride just did get me to the right page on that that rate letter So in our delivery cost this year that that estimate is built on that utilization per 1000 ticking up by about 2% so 2% of what's an overall 10% is coming from the rate of utilization going up the other 7.7 of the balance is the unit cost or the price that's being paid for those services is going up So that's the rough breakdown of what that 7 that 10% is Okay, if so 20% maybe is due to more Because that's utilization right so does that mean more more babies being born is it that type of utilization Or just more people the utilization will be more people being eligible for Medicaid What the rate letter would suggest is that the smaller portion of that increase is coming from the utilization going on It's mostly and mostly the unit cost 70 20 right or 30. Yeah, I think you said okay very good Thank you appreciate that and I think we can go to 1244 now. I believe we're ready for Well 44 is our NDI for pharmacy specialty and we calculate this based on a p.m. P.m.. But I always like to point out we don't actually pay for those drugs in a p.m. P.m.. Basis so specialty drug for mo health net is any drug that costs more than $600 a month We once again Use Mercer and some nationally available data to try to project what we think the increase and spend on those higher cost drugs is going to be so the request here is 78 million dollars all funds which is right in line with what we expected at department request that's 5.6 percent overall You Will point out that if you interested in lists of some of the things that are driving that increase in spend The program descriptions on page 1247 is particularly helpful I'm sorry You said what particularly what the program description on 1247 does list some of the drivers of what that increase is and so Middle paragraph of the page their rheumatoid arthritis oncology HIV multiple sclerosis There are also, you know new products on the market that have expanded use cases. Those are also some of the drivers Okay, move on to page 1249 this is the other side of that coin so this is the increase for non specialties So this would be the category of drugs that are under that six hundred Dollar threshold total request here is twenty two million dollars for this NDI which represents about a three and a half percent trend on the overall cost Okay There's a boss you have an inquiry may proceed Yes director on the pharmacy program itself what I can do the math on the dollar spend between specialty and non specialty drugs but from a like a number of prescriptions or use of those How should we think about? We're spending more on specialty drugs, but they're probably Fewer of them being used so it's like the 80-20 the increase the NDI is gonna be higher on the specialty drugs I'm not talking the increase. I'm talking the overall Utilization of pharmaceutical drugs in our program. Yep. We're spending more for specialty because they're more expensive I just don't know what proportion Is that an equal proportion of dollars relative to number of prescriptions, or is it lopsided? Yeah, it'll be lopsided But I'm gonna ask if our director of pharmacy Josh Moore come up and I know he can provide you some more context on what that breakdown looks like I mean I would expect that it's lower utilization But because the pricing is so high on some of these unique drugs far higher volume of those that are in the non Specialty category that are gonna be in the specialty category. Yeah, so Josh Moore director of pharmacy Moe health net So the specialty drugs are a very small percentage of the volume, but they do make up a large majority of our spend So they actually are larger than our non specialty in terms of just total dollars And the numbers of those sir, could you order magnitude? I'm not looking for specifics But as it's 5% of the drugs driving this total cost and I'll have to go back and look I've actually generated a report we look at this and the breakdown that I use in general is $1,000 because A new drug today actually the median price of a new drug today is about $300,000 when it's approved So we use $1,000 per claim when we look at it so I can pull that we've got some nice graphs Yeah, if you just shoot a note over that'd be great. Thank you. Thank you Can you provide a list of how many seven-figure drug claims you've paid in the prior fiscal year? Yeah, we can do that. It's not a lot We're talking less than a dozen, okay, and that's That's a similar question before but that sounds like Pretty similar. So the trend is maybe it's a different drug or something or the same, but it's That's about what it's been. So we're not paying more or less maybe yeah, there are more seven-figure drugs coming to the market December of 23 to new seven-figure drugs actually came to the market Usually one or two we're coming to the market now a year those tend to be what's thought of as curative or transformative therapies So they're a one-time dose and you're done. I think the most popular one that got quite a bit of press last year was for his alginsma, which is SMA and Usually a child will get that before they turn the age of two We try to get them dose within as quickly as the hospital can test them and make sure that they have the disease And are eligible for the drug. So you're talking less than a month after birth if not, too. I Appreciate that. That's helpful and on and we talked about the core pharmacy a little bit earlier and you know you I Guess correlation isn't causation. It would appear you're doing something right or a good job or maybe just people are taking less drugs I don't know. That's necessarily a case. Although it'd be great. But the trend is going down You know, you talked about that and talked about the core reduction But it does occur to me now as we're speaking just kind of both of these generally if we're if the trendshead in a good direction and we've been lapsing and like why are why do we need NDIs and I don't that I don't know who that's a question for who wants to take that but. Yeah Mr. Chairman I mean I think it's a it's a fair point but I think if we look at where we're overall projecting the pharmacy budget for this year we would project that it would be back up a little bit from that decline mostly because enrollment is stabilizing and in some cases going going back up so I do think you're I do think in this case that the correlation is causation I think and you know if we do it you know presenting the committee a pretty deep dive on where our pharmacy spend has been over the last six years I think it's a really good success story of the state doing a much better job of managing that benefit than we might have done in in in years prior and that really hinges on a couple of things it's Josh and his team making really good decisions coverage decisions and maximizing the use of our preferred drug list which has allowed us to maximize supplemental rebate capture it's doing things that are covering things that maybe we hadn't covered before that are actually leading to lower drug spend in other areas so I do think that that what you see in those budget numbers is a product of managing the benefit better and so I'd love to to share with you guys some of the per claim and per member pharmacy trends that we've seen over the last five or six years all that gets rolled up when we're looking at it from a from a budget view and sometimes gets washed out but there's an incredibly good you know narrative and story behind how we're managing pharmacy benefit. Thank you representative Murray you have a inquiry you may proceed. Yeah just a quick inquiry in regards to the the pharmacy and like the the drugs is there anything the department can do in terms of pushing like PBMs or to fight for like generic alternatives of those specialty drugs or is there anything going on in the department around those efforts? Yes and I'll let Josh speak to this but in general Medicaid works different than a traditional PBM because of the requirements of federal program we're required to have a path to availability for every drug that gets FDA approval which means that we can't have hard and fast drug formularies like you can see on private insurance plans or like the state employee health plan has but we doesn't mean that we're without tools to be able to manage that benefit so we use a mechanism that we call the preferred drug list which essentially us saying if the doctor writes a prescription for this drug then they're not going to have to go through a prior authorization process. Being able to put certain drugs into that class or into that status as being preferred gives us the opportunity to negotiate supplemental rebates with some of the manufacturers. So lots of times and I don't know Josh can add color but but maybe most of the time using generics and promoting those is going to make sense. There are instances where it actually makes more financial sense for the state to prefer a name brand over a generic because that name brand manufacturer is going to give the state such a good rebate that it's actually a net lower price than the generic would be. So Josh and his team along with some outside help they explore all those possibilities with the goal of saying we want the net cost of the state to be as low as it possibly could be for that particular for that particular drug. Josh anything else? Yeah I think that's a really good example to give you some idea on that. So growth hormone is a class where there are about a dozen products. They're all basically the same ingredient but they're made by different manufacturers and so the way you can solicit supplemental rebate is say okay instead of letting people pick between these dozen products and then you get one twelfth of the market share we're going to pick two and who wants to get 50 percent of the market share and then people the manufacturers are willing to put in some dollars towards being the preferred product. Obviously there's going to be cases where non-preferred products are needed and we do have a process for that. Some of that is transparent. We actually did a really good report last week on transparency. Our number of prior authorizations where that are actually manual has gone down even through expansion. So even as we increase the number of lives our PAs have gone down at the same time as our costs have been held basically flat or decreasing net price wise. So we don't get to control the private industry as much but there are some decisions that we make where we do push the private industry. One of those examples being our project HEP Cure where we selected Maveritt the AbbVie product as our preferred product for hepatitis C cures. That has driven the private market towards using those in Missouri that same product because doctors tend to pick the one that they know doesn't need a PA for MohealthNet and then that carries over into the private market. Okay I can certainly appreciate that and you know any efforts that you all can do to help reduce the prices just looking at the the scale of the enrollments that we take on as a state. Is the rebates pretty much the only lever that you all use for that? In terms of pricing that's going to be drug manufacturers. Yeah so in terms of pricing that's the huge lever that we do is creating a preferred drug list, putting the clinical criteria around the product to make sure the right person gets the right drug at the right time. There are some drugs where we'll actually pay for the more expensive one because we know that better outcomes are going to happen anyways. So it's not just cost that we're thinking about and it's not just the cost to the pharmacy program that we're thinking about. So continuous glucose monitors is another product that we started covering in pharmacy because we know that over time that will drive medical expenses down. So we're thinking about all those things as we try to make decisions. We meet every week. It's a fun meeting. Todd jokes about not wanting to come and sit through us for two hours every week. So as we talk about these because we do talk about every single new drug that comes out every week. Okay and then in closing in regards to the the preferred drug list. How often do you all review the formulary for what's approval what's not approved and year over year are there monies left on the table for rebates not being realized? Whether that be like if it's not handled at the point of sale like the you know if the member has to go out and do some type of mail something in like how much of that money is lost? So all rebate dollars come back to the state so that I don't get a bonus at the end of the year depending on how many rebates I sign or anything like that. That all comes back to fund the program. In terms of rebates the biggest loss that we actually have is due to the 340b program because we can't get a duplicate rebate that's already been realized by the 340b covered entity and we could spend an hour or two talking about 340b but yeah very easily could spend lots of time. But in terms of actually reviewing our preferred drug list we review every single class at least once a year and what we do is we split that up over the four quarters of the year because we don't want to review all 350 policies in one meeting. We have three advisory groups made up of Missouri physicians, nurses, and pharmacists that we meet with each quarter to go over the criteria. The General Assembly was really ahead of the time in terms of the rare disease advisory council that we have so every product that's for a rare disease which is defined as less than 200,000 Americans have the disease we review with that group and we're talking about the research specialists from Wash U, BJC. We're hoping to get somebody from Mizzou and also in the Kansas City area. We meet every quarter to talk about those and then we have a prior authorization committee and then we have a drug utilization review board. So a lot of different specialists as we try to figure out what's best for our patients. Okay thank you so much and thank you for your efforts in terms of reducing the cost for the state. And one additional point representative you had the program's book in front of you which you don't. On page 744, 99.34 percent of the rebates invoiced were actually collected. So to your point about how much of the rebates come back our team and it's a combination of Josh's team and Tony's team do a really really good job of making sure the state gets what we're owed. I've seen that team chase down manufacturer that didn't give the state ten dollars back in rebate because that ten dollars was important to them and when you think about the scale of the program having an employee who's saying no they owe us that that rebate we're going to get it that's the that's the kind of that's the kind of team we want running a rebate unit. Thank you representative Black you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair you've used the term Josh's team several times here in director Josh's team and if I understand what that means that means pharmacy's carved out of managed care right we don't have a tpa or correct uh doing for and we don't have a pbm either right we're not in the traditional sense that you guys talk about pbms we do get some outside help uh from uh in some clinical expertise and some help in negotiating uh in those rates um but it's not a traditional pbm like you would normally use that term. So Josh's team is basically doing most of that function that might otherwise be contracted out and we appreciate that and it looks like the trend line shows that that's a good approach and it makes us wonder if it's not transferable elsewhere but thank you for the response. Thank you Mr. Director. Okay anything more on the of course we actually still haven't got to the pharmacy course so we'll have more opportunities to talk about pharmacy but the NDIs I think we're pretty well able to ready move on let me pull the committee here and I think maybe some already voted with their feet potentially or maybe they've got other hearings but um does the committee want a break for lunch is that something you feel like you need to do or are you guys going to start leaving if we don't or should we just keep going we're moving maybe a little slower than I'd like but maybe it picks up I don't know representative Owen you have a strong opinion strongly held belief on this I don't but my stomach does no uh I I would encourage maybe that we continue on and just as people feel comfortable that we're in a section that maybe they are okay with that they could just slip out on their own and have lunch and we could just keep going everybody okay with continuing okay great we'll keep going thank you for that and we'll at some point we'll take a you know a five ten minute break but we won't takea lunch break today and we'll continue for now. So thank you. Great. Mr. Chairman, I'll continue then starting on page 1253. Actually, this is probably a good time isn't it? Let's take five minutes right now, just a break, and we will come back in five minutes. We'll stand recessed for five minutes. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.