Thank you very much. here and Mr. Director we can I think continue now and as far as I'm concerned we've covered those the the two pharmacy NDIs I believe sufficiently and I think maybe we should be on 1253 does that sound right to you? Yes sir. Okay please continue. 1253 is an NDI for our outpatient fee schedule trend we the Mohealthnet moved from our percent of bill charges methodology to a Medicare based outpatient simplified fee schedule now going back about four years ago so this represents what we expect to be the increases in the Medicare based fee schedule which will trickle down to our fee schedule we're estimating a trend of five five percent on that it is a projection and not a hard number but it's a projection we've used in the past. Representative Mayhew you have an inquiry you may proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair. Wow somebody left the microphone open for me they knew I was gonna have an inquiry but hey so this was and these are just the fee increases for for the outpatient right that we're projecting and so we're so you've been made aware of fee schedule changes that are going to impact this but we but you haven't seen them yet is that kind of what the deal is? Yeah yes representative what we did is we we moved from the the old methodology that the state used to reimburse for outpatient services which is a whole range of things in the hospital everything from an emergency department visit to an outpatient knee surgery used to be paid on a percent of billed charges methodology which was a very hospital specific rate and it was based on a hospital specific cost to charge ratio and that led to a whole lot of inequity in the way we were reimbursing hospitals for the exact same service so we like a number of other states in the country now utilize a fee schedule where we say okay a level 4 ER visits gonna be paid at this rate regardless of what hospital it's in a knee surgery is gonna be paid at this rate regardless what the hospital in closer to what we do with the inpatient fee schedule well in inpatients actually like two or three levels more complicated than that we may have a chance to talk about that when we get to the the DRG section but it's more similar to what we do for physician services rates and other hospital provider rates where we benchmark and base our rates off of Medicare we pay some percentage of what that rate is going to be which is a number that providers are familiar with gives us some certainty some rationality to that rate and some consistency between hospitals as that Medicare based fee schedule goes up the percentage that we're paying of that fee schedule goes up as well and so that's what this trend is reflecting and so thank you for doing that because you may or may not recall you and I've had a lot of conversations about that exact thing and how uncontrollable that cost was and so you developed a new strategy for that and thank you very much and so that so basically what we're looking at here is this is closer to a predictable amount for that that increase for this particular line that's correct thank you very much appreciate it thank you mr. chair you okay moving on to page 1256 this is an NDI for an IGT from the Department of Mental Health IGT stands for intergovernmental transfer it's a mechanism that we use when a one State Department spends money we can reflect that as the state share we can draw down the federal dollars to help offset the cost of those services this is specifically for the adult expansion group and it's it's higher utilization of those services within departmental health so we need the the associated federal and IGT Authority no general revenue in this line but it is 260 excuse me 364 million dollars of all funds and that's all deposited into the 1358 yeah this is all a non count mr. chairman so not really reflected in in what our our spend is but we do have to account for it for our federal partners okay moving on to page 1260 this is our whole health net admin core no change from department requests to gov rec it's not in this book but it would be if you were looking at your program book I always like to point it out to the committee our overall admin cost as a percentage of the program is is just a little over 1% 1.2 9% is what we have an administrative cost so happy to answer any questions on that section representative may he have an inquiry you may proceed yeah just just real quick and this is not a bad thing by any stretch of the imagination but you there's a eight and a half million in lapse in that and we've kind of well we can actually seen that go the other direction a little bit last year but those that lapse was as a result of just a higher efficiency in the admin side or why why would we see that much lapse we're gonna have in this mr. representative we're gonna have a mix of PS which is our people and generally we're going to utilize all or almost all of that authority we also have in this section E&E which is the expense that we need for the outside vendors that that help us so I mentioned Mercer earlier and we also have a partner Myers and Stauffer sometimes we won't use all the authority that we've got in in a given year and that that's the biggest bulk of where you'll see that that lapse in funds well and in fact in the most recent ask you'd close that that gap from the previous year so I was just curious if there was another one of these yeah F map our path effects going on but that that is also important to point out there been some structural changes to how the General Assembly has wanted to approach our admin budget and particularly the MMI s budget which is our information systems piece breaking some of those sections out so over time some things that used to be in our admin core or not they're reflected in in other sections so some of those changes do impact what you're seeing in terms of the the overall trend there as well thank you very much thank you mr. chair we'll be on page 1268 this is an ongoing D NDI for our transition to diagnosis related groups diagnosis related groups is the methodology that will be employing to pay for inpatient hospital services talked a little bit earlier about the state's conversion of outpatient services this is to help support the the modeling and the building of our system of diagnosis related groups happy to to talk more about diagnosis related groups if if the committee has questions but the the dollars here are not for those services but these this is for the professional help to make sure that we do the conversion why do you need this to do DRG I mean what is involved that necessitates this mr. chairman the the move to diagnose related groups is a relatively complex move given the baseline of where the state's old methodology was and so that involves us taking a universe of claims in this case we're using both FY 23 and FY 24 claims so historical claims running those through the the grouper and then modeling out what that's going to mean in terms of how a hospital would compare under the old system and the new system we have to do that because we need to know what the impact is going to be on Missouri hospitals if if we make that transition and then that allows us to engage with our partners and in this case we're using Meyers and Stauffer who's a vendor some of you will be familiar with to help the state on our cost report auditing and other things to go through and utilize the levers that exist within a DRG system and levers that exist outside of a DRG system to make sure that we have mitigated the negative impacts to the greatest extent we can our approach on all these payment methodologies has been pretty consistent it's number one we want the state's payment methodologies going forward to be fair one be rational and we want to be transparent so if you call me up and you say hey mr. director how much do we pay for an ER visit or how much do we pay for an inpatient stay in a hospital I can give you a pretty straightforward answer our old methodologies didn't allow you to do that so that's why the fair rational transparency our guideposts on that but we've also sought to make those transitions happen in a way that minimize the disruptions to Missouri hospitals and when you're coming off of very outdated payment methodologies and you're trying to move to a more modern system there is a lot of work that has to be done to mitigate those negative impacts we have been engaged you know with our partners over the last really two years but intensely over the last year and a half to do that work and there's a cost associated with the professional services to do that there also some conversion that will have to happen with Wipro who is our core claims vendor so that they can get the data from the claim into the grouper and then back to Wipro to pay the claim so I know that was a long-winded answer to your fairly straightforward question but that's why we need the money what is the grouper you mentioned this term I'm unfamiliar with I assume it's not the fish yeah no not not the not the fish mr. chairman the grouper refers to so when we called DRG is diagnosis related groups andSo that is one of the groups, you have this condition and this is what it should be, and this is moving from exclusively fee-for-service, right, I mean that is the old methodology or this replaces other payment methodologies as well? It replaces our per diem based system. So our legacy system in Missouri was a facility-specific cost-based per diem, which means that we calculated a per diem rate for every hospital in the state based on their cost report. Just to give you some context for the grounding of that, that per diem rate is grounded in a 1995 cost report that was kind of trended to 2001, and then we made up everything else with supplemental and add-on payments. We were able to go through the process two years ago of rebasing those hospital rates to the most recently available cost report, which I think at the time we did it was 2019, which pulled our methodology forward a little bit, but we're still paying on a per diem, which means every day someone stays in the hospital regardless of their condition, that's the rate we're paying. That rate is very different hospital to hospital, even if you consider hospitals that you all would probably consider to be, you know, similar. A day at Popper Bluff Regional and a day at St. Francis are going to be reimbursed different because they had different cost structures. What diagnosis-related groups does, and it's a method that Medicare has used since the 80s, and it's a methodology that, you know, I think somewhere around the order of 30-plus states are using a modified version of DRG. What it does is it takes all the information that comes through on the claim, which would be up to 10 diagnosis codes, all the demographic factors, the age factors, any associated, you know, complications, and it says we're going to put these in a group, and this is what we think that stay in the hospital should cost for that grouping of conditions. So that'll move us away from having hospital-specific or facility-specific rates, and we'll say that condition presents at Popper Bluff, or it presents in CAPE with the same conditions and they're treating it, then it should be paid in a similar manner. There are lots of policy levers within DRG. We'll utilize some of them. We call those policy adjusters, so certain things that we think are appropriate to incentivize or certain things that maybe our old system was paying a little more for, we'll use those levers to try to smooth those out. And for our transition period of time, and the next question is going to be how long is the transition period of time, and the answer is going to be I'm not sure yet, but for our transition period of time, we'll employ a stop-loss mechanism that will help mitigate the losses that hospitals might see from making that transition. Does a stop-loss last forever? Is this like whole harmless school districts, or at some point that would be pulled off? These are dollars that are in the system today, and so, and they're dollars that we would anticipate continue to be in the system. Should they always be paid out as a stop-loss? I think our answer would be no. We think that there are better ways to use those dollars than just artificially limiting losses. However, there is a reality that when we make these transitions, if we don't employ those kinds of mechanisms, and we don't work with our hospital partners to make sure that those, that disruption, for lack of a better word, is minimized, there are going to be real-world impacts to it. What we have told our hospital partners in this is that we're not going to set a timeline on when we think the stop-loss is going to go away. We would like to explore with them the possibility of taking those dollars and doing some of the things that we've talked about over the years, which is, how do we start to directly incentivize quality? How do we make value-based payments with those dollars, helping redeploy those stop-loss dollars in a way that probably is a little more aligned with long-term program goals? I was going to ask, at first, I read it that we were doing this effective July 1, but then, well, but not really. There's a transition. The transition begins July 1. I thought that you turn the switch and we're live, but that's not, and this is for contractors to look at the impact and all of that. Just to be clear on that point, Mr. Chairman, we will convert the payment methodology. It is our intention to convert the payment methodology starting July 1. We'll move from that per diem-based system to paying diagnosis-related groups. All of the dollars that are associated with our per diem payments today will move into that DRG system. There are some exceptions, but they'll move into that DRG system. We made the conversion from our old legacy system to the methodology we're using for inpatient today. We call that the bridge methodology because it's the bridge from where we were to DRG. We recognized, for the first time, acuity, so we started paying hospitals that had higher levels of acuity, treating the sickest of the sick, paid them more, and we also had a stop-loss mechanism in that. We had to employ that stop-loss mechanism when we went to the bridge methodology because the state's old methodology used an estimate of the number of Medicaid days. Sometimes that estimate was dead on, and sometimes that estimate was wildly inaccurate, depending on which hospital you're looking at. That meant that, in some cases, we were paying for estimated days and when the number of actual days was far lower. If we had just made that transition, saying we're going to rebase the per diems and we're going to pay everybody under that per diem and not account for that delta in estimated days, we would have had some hospitals with really, really significant losses. We employed the combination of the acuity-based payments and the stop-loss payment to mitigate and smooth out some of that transition. What we're currently using for the acuity and stop-loss payment is what we'll fund going forward. That bucket of money, for lack of a better word, will fund the transition payments, which will be the stop-loss, at least at the start of this DRG transition. If we're doing a DRG effective July 1 anyway, why do we need to study it? We're doing it, and that's what's going to inform the stop-loss? This is the ongoing work, Mr. Chairman, that we're going to need to do to fund the look after the fact. We're going to have to continue the work of saying, okay, well, what did come in? How are we going to true up the stop-loss? There are also some other categories of service that we're not going to put in DRG initially that we would like to look at going forward. DRG, unlike our old methodology, has lots of different policy levers that the state can pull. You can go into a specific category of service and say, hey, we want to pay more for behavioral health care services, so we're going to add a .25 multiplier to those behavioral health care services. Maybe we want to pay more for obstetrics, or maybe we want to pay more for general medicine. The dollars needed are for that ongoing support from the vendor to help us through those transitions. I don't think that's a forever thing, that we're going to need that kind of help. I think eventually that's something that can be done through our regular E&E and the flexibility you guys give us for contract and support there. I do think for the first couple of years of implementation, we'll have the need for more dollars. I took that to mean more than one year. You just said a couple of years. The thing is, you asked for this in the core, and even if that's true, if we just put this in the core, we're going to forget about it. Maybe we could one-time this and come back and talk about it next year and see how it's going and do it again. I think it's a fair point. I think it would be an appropriate way to handle that. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. It appears to me at least that it is an integral part of an outcomes-based approach to providing these services so that we can do a lot of things with that, not the least of which is controlling the cost and making sure that the patient is getting the best possible care and we're getting the most bang for our buck. Is that a significant component of utilizing DRG? Yes, Representative. I think it is. We've been talking about the notion of value-based payments, quality-based payments, outcomes-based payments, which mean has a really wide range of things you can put under that umbrella. I think as it comes to hospital services, what we have found is that we really needed to update the foundation or the baseline of our reimbursement levels in order to start to talk about those more frankly fun and exciting and innovative things which get to the outcomes-based payments. In order to get there, we're going to have to fix the foundation of our reimbursement level to something that we think can be a long-term solution for Missouri. I think APR DRG represents that longer-term foundation. This is, we talked about these timelines, but a lot of the things that we're doing that is going to save us a lot of money down the road that we might not immediately see in a two-year cycle. As we make the folks who take advantage of these services, as we make them healthier, that we start making those two lines converge. This is a foundational thing, I think I heard you say, to trying to get us to that point. Is that accurate? Yeah. Yes, it is. The things that drive our costs, and we've talked about them earlier, I mean their enrollment, how many services are being utilized, and what are the costs of those services that are being utilized. Given that those are some of the major drivers, and our theory of the case for a while has been that if we can make the population on MohealthNet healthier, if we can improve their health outcomes, then we can simultaneously improve the financial sustainability of the program. Because the healthier they are, generally, the less services they're using, and if they are using services, they're using the services that are less expensive than if they're really ill. And so, that's our overarching goal, and in order to do that, and to get into some of that stuff, we really do think we've got to fix the foundation of the base payment methodology first. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Representative Black, did you have something on this? You may proceed with an inquiry.Mr. Director you said that Medicare's use DRG since the 80s I think and actually most commercial insurance plans uses well correctly I mean usually yeah PPO arrangements usually start with the Medicare DRG and man adjusted somehow most the insurances goes that way in the whole country now would you think that's more or less accurate yes so we're just now getting on the bandwagon and I presume like in a regular PPO plan employer provided plan like I said it's Medicare informs those reimbursements and I presume Medicare might reinform the formulas or the amounts that you're establishing to if you listen to hospitals they never expect Medicaid to pay as much as Medicare but I still think I'm asking the question I haven't noticed that about them they seem to want us to pay the same but yes generally the expectation is is that Medicaid pays a little less and somehow those Medicare reimbursed DRGs are to some degree informing your plan to is that correct in terms of the methodology but not necessarily in terms of the rate that's paid which is distinguished from the outpatient services where the Medicare rate actually does influence the rate that the state's going to pay so the methodology being similar and I say similar it's not the same Medicare has a very specific population that it covers and so doesn't cover services for pediatrics for example and so APR DRG so the AP and that is all payer so it was a variation of the MS DRG system which was designed for Medicare to account for things that Medicare doesn't pay for that other private insurance or other Medicaid plans might might pay for so it's very similar in terms of the approach but it actually is a different grouper with different logic behind it young you were recognized for an inquiry thank you good afternoon just curious setting up this new payment methodology would that be incumbent upon us or the hospitals who's going to actually and you may have already answered that I don't know but who's going to actually help to execute the new the transition yeah that's that's our job so it's it's what the agency has to do and we had we pay claims for medical providers including hospitals for inpatient services so what we'll be doing here is is changing the way that we make those those claims payments and that's that's not going to require any additional staffing to do it yeah we don't think it will require any additional staffing necessarily although you know some of our team's been worked really really hard to get to this point where we're you know ready for the transition it does require that additional contracting work and and with you know our two biggest vendors that are affected by this which is our core claims vendor Wipro and our partners at Myers and Stauffer we also have a third partner in this which is a company called sylventum you all will have known them by their other name which is 3m they do more than just make tape they actually are the only they are the proprietary source for DRG grouping logic so they're they're the third leg of our our outside help on on this okay thank you I think we can continue okay move on to page 1270 mr. chairman this is the the core of our clinical services program management this supports a number of services that help support decisions made in pharmacy decisions like prior authorization happy to answer any questions on this it's a contract that we have 14 million dollars as a request no change from department request to go back moving on to page 1275 this is the core for our MHD office of transformation will certainly be familiar to returning members of the the committee this is an office that to the help of this committee we established six plus years ago now supports a relatively small team of six people that are focused on nothing but making them all health net program better this is another area where I would encourage you if you have the opportunity to look through that program description book where you'll have a comprehensive list of of the things that the transformation office has supported and enabled over the years so this request is unchanged from department request to go right so yeah speaking of that programs book one of the things that's mentioned in there is in state fiscal year 23 the office of transformation discovered over 92,000 Medicaid participants were also edgy eligible for Medicare but not enrolled and that an effort was you know made to reach out to those including sending letters I 92,000 185 of them for a cost of ninety five thousand fifty dollars I imagine a lot of those were returned undeliverable if we even asked to get them back but also connecting them with a nonprofit the Missouri State Health Insurance Program which you know I'm familiar with them it's been many years but they do good work utilizing mostly volunteers and had a kind of an event in my district where you know people could come in and look about you know if they were in the you know the right plan or so on and so forth and those that are enrolling for the first time they're very very helpful and it suggests that you know the connecting them with the most ship that it was it was overwhelming you know for them the workload and that of these ninety two thousand one hundred or ninety two thousand or so we've got twenty four hundred and five now enrolled in Medicare resulting in 1.8 million dollar cost avoidance to our Medicaid program really my question is there any way we can accelerate this because you know your ultimate projected cost avoidance by fiscal year is eighty three million dollars a year we only realized thirty eight million though in state fiscal year 2024 and so I'm actually kind of surprised I think most ships in DCI we didn't hear anything about that from them but can we give them more resources that's admittedly a question for them can we give you more resources I mean because this would be a place to I mean a little general revenue might go a long ways to accelerating that I mean why why wouldn't we want to do this in one year versus three or four however many years it might take and maybe you never get to ninety two thousand but can you help us understand that a little bit more and good good efforts by the way I mean that's yeah glad you're kicking over those rocks yeah mr. chairman it's a great question and something and I don't know if director Matthews he is still here but I'll take that back with with them and ask that question if there are you know what really are the rate limiters to accelerating that as you pointed out you know the initial effort was so large that the you know decision was made to batch to batch that together and put in tranches but we certainly want to continue that effort and I don't think we get to a point where we're done with that because we're going to continue to identify folks who are eligible for Medicare and aren't enrolled so I think we see that that is an ongoing effort going all the way back to you know when we had the the rapid response reviewer report back in 2018 it one of the things that identified was that Missouri had a higher number of individuals who appeared to be dual eligible then we're actually enrolled in both Medicare and Medicaid and you know as I know you're aware but maybe not the rest of the committee Medicaid is always the payer of last resort and so the that we're going to talk about this when we get to the TPL discussion here in a little bit but the ability to get folks enrolled in Medicare if they're eligible represents a really significant cost savings to the state for every participant we're able to do that with so we'll take that back and and see if we can find some ways to add a little fuel to that yeah which maybe you could do within your transformation line I don't know if you're still lapsing a little bit of general revenue not as much as you have in years past you're really you know doing more through that than ever before clearly but I mean boy if we need to hire some people and go door-to-door I mean it's seven hundred sixty dollars a month you could have somebody I mean if they just found two people a month more than they probably pay for themselves and then some and I assume you know maybe it doesn't work in the rural area and I don't know how people feel about the government knocking on people's doors but I mean it's a welfare program after all and we could save some money so I don't mind myself going and trying to track people down and especially maybe where there's an economy of scale or something like that so anything we could do to help you accelerate this effort be very interested in and knowing what that is so thank you I to follow up with you thank you anything more on transformation from the committee okay we can continue okay 1280 is the core of the data management office again thankful to the General Assembly last year for enabling this new capability within no health that and really it's not entirely new capability but it allowed us to expand some capability and also to kind of streamline our focus on data and using it to make decisions that drive the program so this request is unchained unchanged department request to gov rec six hundred ninety five thousand dollars all funds thank you mr. chairman moving on to page 1285 this is the core of our third party liability or TPL contracts as I mentioned Medicaid is should be and is the payer of last resort so we use a contractor to help us identify what those other third parties would be it could be Medicare it could be other private insuranceand either avoid the cost on the front end or in cases where an actual recovery is necessary to help us with that recovery. We have sort of two mechanisms in this basic structure, and I mention this because you'll see an NDI later. One is we pay just sort of on a regular basis, but we also have a contingency fee-based arrangement here for increased recoveries, meaning that we need to pay more money, and the good news is we've had increased recoveries. So the request here is $8.5 million, that's all funds, and I should note that increase is in the SUP, not in the 26 budget. Thank you, Representative Mayhew, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So last year, is this a flat-fee contract now or something? I see that in prior years there was lapse, but last year there was not. It's not entirely flat-fee, it's a flat-fee for up to a certain amount of the claims, and then there also is a contingency-based component of that as well, which is why there was an increase requested in the supplemental because they did a better job with recoveries. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, moving on to page 1290, this is the core of our information systems budget. The next several sections of the budget are actually gonna be related to our information systems. So I'll say at the front here, what we refer to as the MMIS, or the Medicaid Management Information System, is not one single system, but it's a combination of systems and vendor-operated solutions that we use to run the Medicaid program. Request here for the core is $59 million of all funds, and no change from department request to GovRec. Okay, next on page 1297, this is our NDI for MMIS operational cost increase. So we do have predicted and planned increases in the contracts with the vendors that help support these systems. The total request here is $10 million, all funds, no change from department request to GovRec. Okay. Okay, next on page 1300, this is our MMIS federal pickup on the cost to continue. We did have some core reductions in our federal authority last year. This is representing a pickup of that funds. As I mentioned at the outset, our federal partners do have a higher match rate for our information system spending, 75% on the operations, and 90% on new system implementation, which means our federal need is always gonna be pretty significant in these MMIS sections. Next on page 1302, this is an NDI for a project management office within our information systems unit. We are right in the process of procuring, modernizing additional pieces of this system. The two biggest components of that modernization will be our pharmacy system, which is a project that's well in flight now, or it's a procurement that's well in flight now. Then also, we have smaller systems implementations, which doesn't mean they're small, that are gonna be listed later on here in the book. This project management office is to help WillHealthNet staff manage the load of those projects and make sure that they get completed in a timely, efficient, and effective manner. Representative Voss, please proceed. Thank you. So, Director, I'm just looking through in a more broad sense here on your management information system. How much money do you think is spent on information systems, trying to manage this part of our program? I could get it rolled up for you, Representative. Off the top of my head, I don't know what that would be. We could certainly roll that up. It's a significant portion of the spend of our program. It's sometimes hard, and even still hard for me, to understand the scale of the number of claims and requests that come in. We're processing somewhere on the order of 14 million claims. It's maybe a little less than that. The number I used to use was 10 million claims. It's higher than that now, but 10 million claims that are coming in a month with 1,000 unique edits and exceptions that get applied to every claim, plus the prior authorization request, plus the pharmacy rebate stuff. We also have additional functions where once Family Support Division determines someone to be eligible, then we've gotta get them enrolled in a plan. There's a lot of complexity in terms of the management of the program and a lot of different pieces that have to be a part of that. The spend's significant, is the bottom line answer to your question. Would you consider those MIS dollars to be part of that administrative cost, so that 1.3% that you mentioned? Is that in that, or is those separate from that 1.3%? I think we used to have it rolled into that cost, and I think it is included. I'm not sure, Tony, if that's included in that 1.29. I'll get back to you. I'll get you both those costs. I'm not actually sure, based on the way you display it. I'm not looking for the penny. I'm looking at order of magnitude, and the basis for my question is, I think our state spends a lot of money on IT systems. No question. We probably don't spend enough, if you look at how old some of our systems are. And I know that ITSD is leading us through a digital transformation that's gonna take multiple years. And I don't know if any of your systems are a part of what they're managing. I know some of our recent experience with the childcare subsidy payment program has not gone the way that we wanted. And frankly, I'm a little concerned that we just need a better approach. I don't know how to politely say it, but we depend on our IT systems for so many things, and I don't know that we're able to invest and keep up with the technology that enables you and the other team workers to deliver the services that our citizens expect in a way that is very cost efficient. And so I'm just trying to get my arms wrapped around the entirety of our IT programs as a state, and don't know how you fit into them, if you will. I'm being very vague, because I'm not sure how to get my arms around it, but there are some departments who have their own IT groups or IT support systems, and team state workers that do that. And I'm just curious if you're a part of them, or if you're separate like many other departments, and how do we integrate all this to make sure that we're bringing our best for the citizens of the state? Yep, I'm happy to try to break that down. I should say at the outset that anytime we do new systems, we don't turn the old one off before we turn the new one on. Thank you. I meant to say that. Especially on one that does 14 million transactions a month. Right, and when we get to our core claims modernization, we will be very, very careful with how we do that implementation. Our IT spend really is in two different buckets. We have the same kind of IT spend that the rest of the Department of Social Services is going to have, which is the systems that our employees use every day to do their jobs. And then we have the specific Medicaid and programmatic related systems, which are outside of ITSD. So we have the responsibility of doing the vendor management, to doing the procurement. We also have the responsibility back to our federal partners, who do put several layers of oversight over these projects, because they're investing quite a bit of the resources in funding them. So we have done, I think, a very good job at moving down a modernization journey. And as I said at the outset, the MMIS is not one single system that we just modernize and we're done with. It's several different components. We have some of the major pieces left, but we do now have more modern systems for a number of our pieces. I think the best example of this is our enterprise data warehouse. So our ability now as an agency to consume data and to make policy decisions based on that data, is actually in pretty good shape right now. We've got a modern data warehouse that allows us to do analytics and data visualizations. We didn't have that capability six years ago. So that's been very successful. In other areas, we're still using some really old stuff. So our core claim system is a COBOL based system. It's 1978, 1979. It does exactly what we tell it to do. It does it in a remarkably stable and efficient manner. It's just really hard to change. And many of the people that know how to use that system are no longer in the workforce, right? Yeah, it's clunky and it's hard to change and it takes a long time. And so we are going to go through the process of modernizing that system, which will, in addition to just modernizing and pulling the system forward, will give the state capability it didn't have before. So we're excited about that transition, but also, as with any of these projects, mindful that there's a lot of work and a lot of cost that goes into it. So when we're talking about this project management office as the NDI, the biggest rate limiter on being able to accelerate the timeline on these modernization projects usually isn't the checkbook. It's the people, time, and particularly the subject matter experts within the program that can help that vendor walk through, because the first question they're going to ask is they're going to say, what do you want your system to do? Map out your work process. That's right. And so the project management office helps take a little bit of the load of managing the project off so that those folks can really be resourcing multiple implementations in terms of that subject matter and agency-level expertise. Yeah, those value streams. Exactly right. Great. Thank you for the inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Okay, moving on to page 1306. These are, this is an NDI for enhancements in the MMIS system. There's a fairly detailed description on page 1307 about some of the upgrades. This is to our existing legacy system that we continue to need to make improvements as the program needs those while we're.preparing for new system implementation. Page 1310, this is the MMIS interoperability. Our federal partners at CMS have certain requirements on the interoperability of systems and our prior authorizations. This is to help get the state systems up to snuff to meet that interoperability requirement. Continuing on in the MMIS section, this is MMIS prior authorization, NDI. One of the things as we are modernizing that we need to re-procure is our prior authorization vendor. This has been a portion of the clinical services management program core that we talked about a little bit earlier in the budget. This will replace that as that's coming out of that contract. So $9 million is the request here. Page 1315, this is an NDI for a security risk assessment. As we have modernized some of these systems and now as we have more connections between our systems, we think this is the appropriate time to do a full-blown security risk assessment of our systems. It's been a number of years since we've done this. $4 million is the request here. Page 1318, this is the core for – excuse me one moment, sorry. Representative Murray, please proceed. Yeah, just a quick question in regards to the risk assessment. The $4 million looks like it's towards E&E. Can you explain what exactly that is? Like is it going to be some type of system that you are going to implement? We will hire a vendor that is skilled at doing security risk assessments. And so they will come in as an independent assessor of that risk, and they will pressure test our systems and identify any things that need to be fixed. So that's why it's in E&E. Okay, thank you. Next is the core of our enterprise data warehouse. I mentioned that just a minute ago, but it's obviously great capability for us. This is the ongoing cost, $5 million, all funds there. Page 1324, this is the core of our MMIS enrollment broker. Once FSD, Family Support Division, determines that somebody is eligible, we have to get them, if they're in our managed care program, enrolled in one of our managed care plans. This is the vendor that helps us do that, in addition to things like premium collections. So this is the ongoing program cost, $7 million, all funds. This is page 1330. This is the core of our clinical management services contract and also our pharmacy system. I mentioned this just a minute ago, $19 million, all funds is the request here. Next on 1336, this is the core of our pharmacy system. Our pharmacy benefit is paid all in a fee-for-service environment, meaning we're billed for the claim and we make the payment. This is the system that allows us to make that payment to pharmacies when those claims come in. $15 million is the total cost for the operation. Next is the core for our MMIS managed care contract management tool. This is a project that we've actually had on the table for a number of years, funded last year. We are still in the process of procurement there. Hope to have that RFP on the street sometime before the end of the fiscal year. Essentially what this tool will do is help us to have additional tools that allow us to evaluate, manage, to check on the performance of those managed care contracts. $7 million, all funds, is the request here. And you will note this is one of those areas where, because we're still in implementation, you have a really significant federal portion of this versus GR. Page 1348, this is the closed-loop social referral program. This was an NDI that was put in the budget a couple of years ago, actually, to fund a statewide version of a closed-loop referral system. This is what you guys might know as Unite Us or Find Help. And the state has been in the process of really trying to zero in on what we think the use cases are for that. This was not a project that initially was generated from the agency, but rather came from the General Assembly. It's a project we support and want to do, but it's taken us a little time to get this one off the ground. Anticipate that we will have an RFP on the street for this within this fiscal year. Representative Mayhew, please proceed. Okay, so I think you got to part of that. So I appreciate the reason for that significant lapse. It was basically a 100% lapse, but trying to move toward getting it in place. But I appreciate that you cut that authority in half. Is that the real number on the implementation of the system? And I'll have a similar question on the next line item, too, just to warn you ahead of time, and then you can go ahead and ask that. On that significant lapse, we had apparently estimated it to be basically $10 million, and now we're at $5 million. So we have new information on what that's going to ultimately cost us? Representative, this is going to be an RFP, and so I don't know that we have a firm idea of what the costs are going to be, but this is us trying to apply some math to it. The $10 million to the $5 million last year was not a decision or a core cut that we offered up as saying we think this is going to cost less. It was one that the General Assembly, I think appropriately, no problem with it, took because we hadn't spent the money at that point. In terms of what the long-term cost of this is going to be, I think the $5 million is probably more in line with where we'll land. But there is some concern, I think, from our team about whether that will be sufficient to meet it. But I think it's in the ballpark. And so when you get to the next item, my concern is going to be once again on the lapse so you can address that when you get to it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Please proceed. Yep. Thanks, Mr. Chairman. And, Representative, I'll go ahead and start there. So the next item is the health data utility. These were projects that were added similar time in the budget, and the health data utility included in the budget with our full support and engagement. But it was added at a point in time where the concept was pretty well laid out, but what was behind the concept wasn't. The work just hadn't been done at that point. So there has been a boatload of work that has happened since that original appropriation two years ago to figure out what the structure of this is going to be, how our existing health information networks fit into this, and what is the role or oversight or who's the convener of this health data utility. We believe we're in a really good place now in terms of understanding what we want that structure to look like, a really good place in terms of how the health information networks are going to fit into this. And so my expectation is that we're going to see a pretty significant acceleration of those dollars being spent towards the end of this fiscal year and certainly into next. There is some regulatory stuff that we need to go get done with CMS on some components of this. We're operating right now with what's called an advanced planning document, which is different than an implementation document. So we'll have to go do some revision of that with CMS, which will take a little bit of time. But I do think this is one probably even more faster than you will see on the closed loop referral system where we will see some dollars going out the door. So the prior utilization was about doing all of those administrative and preparatory things. And so now we're going to see the big money spent in the next cycle? Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. I think we are officially out of the IT systems section now, and we're on to the core of Show Me Home on page 1358. Show Me Home is a program that used to be known as Money Follows the Person. We thought Show Me Home was a more descriptive name of what it actually does. It's an all-federal grant that helps support contractors who transition people from nursing homes back into the community. Obviously, it's better for the participant if they're able to live in the community in most circumstances, and it's financially advantageous to the state. So it's a program we really support. The budget request here is $1.5 million of all federal authority. Excuse me one moment. Representative Christensen, please proceed. Thank you, Vice Chair. Just to inquire, okay, real quick, do we have a map or maybe some of the coordinators? What areas are they mostly helping? Mostly helping in northeast and northwest Missouri right now. Had difficulty with contractors in southwest Missouri and southeast Missouri. We're getting some coverage in those areas, but we have had recent difficulty in getting good support in those areas. I know our Show Me Home coordinator is working on some changes to the contract, to the RFP, to try to increase the participation in this. Obviously, we want to see contractors in every corner of the state and ideally local contractors and not folks maybe from northeast having to support all the way down to Chairman Deaton's district in the southwest. Sure. Some of the issues that I've kind of seen, just like even in my area, with trying to get people on HCBS is just because they don't know. I mean, of course, HCBS is really in Kansas City, St. Louis, and part of Springfield. But kind of when you get up in the northern area, there really isn't a lot going on. Or if they do try to get to go home, they get such a minimal amount of help. I mean, it's almost.most embarrassing to where they should just probably stay in the assisted living. So happy to talk with you about that offline. But if you could get me the counties, I think that's really important whenever you can, that would be really appreciated. Happy to do that. And Representative, it'd be important to distinguish. I mean, there's a lot of things that we have available in the program to try to support people continuing to live in their home. And HCBS services. And I love that. Yeah, I mean, I'm all about it. Big, big, big part of that. This is a fairly niche piece of that overall effort, which is once we've got somebody in a nursing home, there are people who can appropriately, if they have some help, return to home, and then have the benefit of all those HCBS services to wrap around them and make that transition successful. So happy to visit some more about it. Yeah, thank you. Please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 1363, we're now to the core of the pharmacy program. We spent a fair amount of time talking about pharmacy and the NDIs today, but this is the pharmacy core. $1.3 billion is the rate here. I will note for the committee's benefit, because we talked about it earlier, but didn't really quantify the number. You'll see there a fairly substantial amount of other funds that are going to support the program, $307 million. That's where you see reflected that rebate and supplemental rebate capture that we talked about earlier that's helping limit the impact of the general revenue need on the program. Excuse me one moment. Representative Chappell, did you have a question? I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I actually want to talk about the clawback, which is the next one. Oh, okay, sorry. Thank you. Moving on to 1370, we'll talk about pharmacy clawback. So essentially what happens here is Medicare Part D pays for certain pharmacy claims. Part of the condition of that is state's got to pay it back for what Medicaid otherwise would have paid. So that is a rate that's set by calendar year. There's a somewhat complex formula that gets used to set that by the federal government. We're still money ahead, even with the clawback payment, given the cost avoidance we have, but it's $353 million, all funds. Representative Chappell, please proceed with your inquiry. So the cost that we pay on the clawback, if I understand this correctly, and I'm familiar with Medicare because of my real job, right? So the cost of this is determined based on what the state would have paid out if we didn't have Part D available. So they're charging us for Part D, and the cost thereof is this is what you would have paid if they didn't have it? Right. I've heard a lot of dumb governmental, I mean, really? That's one of the top 10 dumb things I've heard this year. We can visit some more about it, Representative. I don't have all the history on this. It's not your fault, sir. No, no, I appreciate that. This is Washington, D.C. stupid. I'll take the blame for a lot of stuff, but I won't take necessarily the blame for this. But I believe that part of this was necessary to make the math work to do Part D in the first place. But we've got some people on our team that can come talk to you about it, and we'll explain it. But the way you've described the operation of the program, that's what it is. I think we need to talk to our congressional teams. I'm 100% serious. This is the kind of stuff that's absolutely insane when it comes from Washington, D.C., and this is nothing but a third of a billion dollars of GR that we're being held hostage for, and that's exactly what this is. Representative, I think it would be fair to make the point that if Part D didn't exist, the state would be incurring those expenses, and I think that's the rationale behind which we're required to make the payment. Would I prefer to not have $340 million of clawback payments in my budget? Yes, I would. I would agree that if things were different, they wouldn't be the same. But if they're charging us the same amount either way, what strings are attached to us accepting the Part D and the availability of all that? How much of an incursion is this on our citizenry? Well, what's in fact happening here is Part D is paying for a pharmacy claim that if it didn't exist, Medicaid would pay for. So I think that they would say, hey, the state's got the cost in it either way. Sure. So we can come by and I can visit with you some more. I don't mean to waste the committee's time, but Medicare also approves formularies of the insurance companies, and if an insurance company has a drug on their formulary, then there's a limit to the amount of the cost. But if the insurance company doesn't place a drug on the formulary, then it's completely out of pocket. Part D doesn't apply at all. And I think we're financially whistling past the graveyard on this, and I don't like having to pay for the privilege. We'd love to talk some more about it and see if there's a way to improve it. I can tell you that. All right, sir, thank you. Representative Black, proceed with your inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I presume there's some offset for what Medicare would have paid as opposed to what the state would have paid. I mean, necessarily what the state might have paid for this medicine might not be what Medicare Part D would pay for the medicine. Is there a correction there for that? Yeah, Representative, I will get you some more information on the exact formula that's used to calculate clawback rates. It is based in part on pharmacy amounts paid in the state to do that federal calculation. It's attempting to approximate what the state would have paid if Medicare Part D didn't exist. In other words, if we were covering the entirety of that pharmacy benefit and there were no Part B, that's what we would have paid. And it does include some state-specific numbers. But I need to do a little bit of checking to get you the details on that. Yeah, obviously the question is if Medicare wants back all the money that they would have paid, but if we had it, we wouldn't have paid that much. I mean, surely that's not what's going on, but I appreciate the review. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Moving on to 1377. This is the core of the now much smaller MOARX plan. So this provides pharmaceutical assistance to Medicare and Medicaid dual eligibles. $2.4 million, request all funds. Next is the core of the pharmacy FRA, or what we refer to as PIFRA. Total request here is $58 million, all funds. As you can see on page 1383, this has been a declining core for us. In fact, I think we took a pretty significant core cut in FY25. Reality is this is probably not gonna utilize all this authority that we've asked for in FY26. We have been exploring some ways that we might be able to use the pharmacy FRA to a little higher level than we are today, but not sure that we're gonna find good ways to be able to use that going forward. So the request is still $58 million, all funds for this year. Next on page 1387, this is the core of our physician services. So this is payments to physicians, APRNs, behavioral health providers, chiropractors, podiatrists, doula services as of October of this year. Also lab and radiology associated services there. Important to note, even as large as this category is at $575 million, this represents just the amount for the fee-for-service portion of our population. Those services are paid for and provided through our managed care contracts, and those costs will be reflected in our managed care line for our managed care population. Happy to answer any questions on that section. Next on page 1394 is the core of our portion of the CCBHO, or Certified Community Behavioral Health Organization program. This is a program that I know Director Kuhn and Department of Health are gonna wanna give you guys a full download on as a lot of the program costs are in their budget. This is the portion that is allocated to MHD. Total request here is $98 million, all funds. One moment. Representative Crossley, do you have an inquiry? Yes, thank you. Please proceed. Good afternoon, thanks for being here. I've noticed a lot of the way through the book the governor has actually asked for more than the department requested, so thank you for that. That's a refreshing change. This is one place, though, that it's quite a bit lower than what the department requested. Could you just talk through that for a bit? Yeah, it's just a function, as I mentioned earlier, about better numbers a little bit later in the fiscal year. So our rates are up a little bit, and the utilization is up a little bit, but not as much as we would have expected at the time of department request. So the department feels comfortable with being able to fulfill its mission? Okay, thank you. Absolutely, yep. Okay, page 1401. This is the GR pickup for CCBHOs. You'll notice that this is zeroed out in GovRec. We are very comfortable with that being zeroed out. As we talked about earlier in the managed care actuarial, there is some uncertainty about whether the federal demonstration that enabled CCBHOs in the first place that allows us an enhanced match rate will actually be extended. We've zeroed out the general revenue request. If it's not extended, then we would obviously be back for a supplemental or looking for another source to fund that GR pickup. Next on 1405, ABA services and CCBHOs. Last year, General Assembly added in House Bill 11 that applied behavioral health services are included in CCBHOs.DBHOs, we support that change. This is a full year worth of the implementation cost for that change, $5 million is the total request. Next on 1408 is the core of the program for all-inclusive care for the elderly or a PACE program. We have three PACE sites in Missouri. The idea is that there is a inclusive range of services from primary care, preventative care, in-home services, long-term care services that are provided under a single umbrella, allowing better coordination, better delivery of those services. We have three providers in the state, one in Springfield, one in St. Louis, one in Kansas City, and we calculate a rate that we pay them for the members in that care based on what we call the AWOP or the amount that otherwise would have been paid. So this is the core for that program, $12 million of all funds. You will note that there has been a fair amount of lapse in this program, and you can see the ramp-up in expenditures from FY23 to 24. This program has ramped up a little slower than we would have anticipated, but now that we have three sites up and running, we do expect a more aggressive ramp-up over the next year in terms of the number of participants in the program. Happy to answer any questions about PACE. Representative Voss, please proceed. Yeah, so why the three locations? How did we get to those particular locations? Oh, we didn't choose them. Vendors and providers in those areas chose them and applied to be a PACE site. We would be open to additional PACE sites where there are providers that wanted to be a part of it. Okay, thank you. Next on 1415, this is the PACE rate increase. I mentioned the AWOP calculation, and the amount otherwise would have been paid. So as we update that every year, this is the amount necessary for that increase, assuming a fully ramped-up utilization. So $413,000 is the total request. 1419, this is the core of our dental program. Comprehensive dental services, I should say, are available for children, pregnant women, blind, nursing facility residents, and a more limited adult benefit being offered for adults in the program. The total request here is $13 million. There's relatively little change from department request to GovRec. You will see a pretty significant increase in the expenditures over the last three years. Part of that is that we had a really significant rate increase authorized by the General Assembly, part of that is that we've got higher enrollment, and therefore higher utilization. Should also note that this doesn't represent the entirety of the dental spend. Much like the physician services line, a lot of the costs for the dental services for our participants in managed care would be reflected in that managed care core. Okay, page 1426, this is our premiums section. So this helps to fund our Medicare buy-in and our HIP program, which is Health Insurance Premium Payment Program. Biggest bulk of this is for Medicare buy-in, so in cases where individuals have a Medicare premium and are also eligible for Medicaid, makes financial sense for the state to actually pay for that Medicare premium. You'll note, if you look, I'm not sure if it's here or in the program description book, but I think it's in the program description book. In FY24, there was about $2.6 billion of avoided cost because we spent this money to do Medicare buy-in. Page 14, excuse me one moment. Representative Hine, please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just real quick, can you refresh my memory on how much it cost to do the Medicare pickup? Like if we were to transition, like if we paid to have somebody on Medicare, how much does that cost per patient? Yeah, great question. And you've said that before, and I just, I can't recall. Yeah, Representative, thanks to Tony here for providing me the premium amount. So in calendar year 25, and this is another example, like clawback where it's a calendar year rate, calendar year 25, part A was $518, and part B was $185. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Next is the NDI for premium increase. So as that Medicare premium gets adjusted every year, we have an NDI. We assume for the purpose of the NDI, at department request time, a $10 increase to part A and a $20 increase to part B, which has been roughly where the historicals are. Time we got to GoverEc, we have actual numbers, and so the total request there is $28 million, all funds. Okay, next on page 1437, this is the core of our nursing facility reimbursement. Total request here is a million, excuse me, $1 billion. Relatively little change from department request to GoverEc. On page, if you do look at the program book, you can see what the rate history is and where some of our rates compare to surrounding states, but through the efforts of the General Assembly and some of our department requests, there's been a significant increase in the rates we're paying nursing facilities over the last three and a half years. Thank you. I believe Representative Lewis has a question. Please proceed. Yeah, I appreciate that. We have been increasing our rates in nursing homes. We're doing a good job doing that. My question really is in the, it's interesting that the unexpended has been, total revenue is one thing, but we've got unexpended general revenue that's been increasing from $1, which is, I think, 6 million to 13 million. Are you keeping extra GR to make sure that you can pull down all the federal or why is that drifting up? I mean, it's doubled last year, and then you're asking to go up to a million as from 894, a billion, sorry. You're going to go up another 100 million. Is the GR lapse going to be equivalent to maybe 26? No, Representative, I don't anticipate that it will be. There's been a significant rate increase in FY25 that is also informing what our baseline is for our request for FY26. This is still a utilization-based payment, so we set the rate and apply the rate increase, but we still pay based on the number of days someone's in the nursing facility, and so our estimates are usually pretty good on that, but they're not going to be to the penny. So what you're seeing there is fluctuations in utilization, and I don't necessarily think a trend that you would expect to see going forward. If anything, we expect in FY25, and we do have dollars in the supplemental associated with it, that right now, we're probably a little under-appropriated for what we need to finish out the fiscal year. We have two sources of state share in nursing facilities like you're going to see in hospital care and other areas. We have our nursing facility provider tax, and then we have GR, and so we're going to exhaust that nursing facility provider tax first, and then the GR is what we're going to leave over. So you're really close on the, I mean, so that's what you're doing. You're really close on your federal disbursements, however you want to say that, the monies that you're using federally, and the GR is going to pick up any slack, I mean, if we don't have quite enough. Am I saying that correct? Yeah, and as Pat, Director Lubring was also pointing out, some of it is how we flex our dollars, too. We're not going to necessarily hit all of those approaches exactly right, but I don't think that, I think to the extent that your question was, do we anticipate we're going to have, you know, a significant GR lapse in nursing facility? Bottom line answer is no, I don't anticipate that we will. What was the increase from last year? I mean, I don't remember, I know we increased, but I don't remember what it was. Can you do that simply, is it dealt simply, or is that? In terms of an amount per day? Yeah. It's going to be dependent on the facilities, because what we did is we did another rebase, so we pulled costs forward to the most recent cost report, so essentially had three big tranches of rate increase. We did a rebase to 19 cost, 2019 cost reports, I think, which was the most recent we had at the time. 19, it was the original one, 21. Yes, it was 19. Yeah. This is the. Yeah, so Tony's got it right here for me once again. Well, Pat had it, too, so I'll give them both dual credit on this one. So, we did that rebase in 19. We then did an add-on in the preceding year, which was kind of a down payment or investment towards that further rebase, and the rebase we just completed represented about a $13.50 increase overall in the rate. Important to note that that doesn't mean every facility got $13.50. Just average that way. That's where it averages out, and then the value-based payment components that we have also as a part of that rate represented about an additional $1.17 on top of that $13.50. Yeah, and I see that's coming up next. I don't need to slow us down. Thank you, appreciate it. You did a good job. Cool, thanks. Okay, I'll move on then to that core of that nursing facility value-based payment. This is a piece of our rate structure that we added.several years ago that provides additional dollars to nursing homes that are meeting quality measures that we have set. We're very much committed to this as being a part of our nursing facility rate going forward. Total request here on the core is $31 million, all funds. I'll go ahead and talk about the NDI on page 1451 because it's related to the previous section's core. This is $3 million NDI for that value-based payment section. As we have raised baseline rates, we have sought to raise the amount that's being paid in the value-based payment piece proportionally to the rate increases we've done so that we don't dilute the impact or water down the importance of the value-based payment structure. So $3.1 million is the total request here. Okay, page 1453, this is the core of our home health program. So this is not our home and community-based services, but this is those skilled services that are provided in the home. $3.9 million is the total request here. Very slight difference, department request to GOVREC. Page 1460, this is the core of our nursing facility FRA, and the last section in this book. We talked about provider taxes earlier in the day. It's obviously a structure we use in both hospital and nursing facilities to help the state meet its state share obligations. Total request here is $372 million of all funds. Dollars here represent both the assessment and the federal dollars associated with that assessment. Happy to answer any questions on the nursing facility FRA. Okay. Move on, Mr. Chairman, to book eight, and I'm going to start on page 1465, which is, I believe, the first tab in the book, with the assisted living facilities rehab services. This is a section that was added last year that was basically an authority section that would give us the opportunity to explore with the industry whether there was a way to apply more Medicaid dollars to assisted living facilities. You'll see there was no dollar appropriation. The idea was that we might be able to flex dollars into that section if we were able to find that path. We're continuing to have those discussions with the industry. We don't have anything that we're ready to move forward at this point, but we've left it in here for the purpose of giving us the flexibility as we continue those conversations. Next on page 1471, this is the core of a section called long-term support payments. This provides supplemental funding to two nursing facilities in the state, Lakewood, which is associated with University Health, the Truman Medical Center, and Pemiscot Memorial. This funding mechanism uses an IGT, or intergovernmental transfer, to draw down the federal dollars. $10 million is the total request. Next on page 1477, this is the core of our rehab services. This includes things like durable medical equipment, audiology, hospice services, ambulance services, day rehab, and some residential treatment for children and youth. The total request here is $327 million of all funds. There also is an excellent description in the program's book on all of the services that are included within this section. Next on page 1484, this is a rate increase for hospice. This is 2.5% is the number, the percentage associated with this number. As our other rates go up, hospice rates are mandated to be paid at one of four predetermined levels. This is the mandatory increase associated with those hospice services. You don't have laps in the core that can account for this? Let me take a look, Mr. Chairman. We always include this as an NDI, but I will certainly take a look at whether we got laps in the core that could accommodate. Okay, thank you. Next, NEMT, or non-emergency medical transportation. So Medicaid provides transportation services to and from Medicaid medical services. We use a per member per month structure on this contract as well. You can see in the program's book a look at how many trips per month, about 100,000 trips per month under this contract, an average cost of about $3.18 a trip. Incredibly important benefit for us. We'll note this is the fee-for-service side of the benefit, the managed care, for those in managed care, that benefit is included in the managed care portion of the rate. Happy to answer any questions. You're in year one of a however many year contract? You're actually year two, Mr. Chairman, I think. Just year two? Okay, and is that a five year, or what was the duration on that, do you recall? We're in year two, I believe, of a five year contract. Okay, year two of a five year, so you're probably what, a year, were there any extensions on that, or is it just a set term of five years, or any optional? I had to go back and look. I don't think there were extensions on this one. So you're a year, probably, or are you about two years away from developing an RFP to put out on that? Yes. Okay, and generally the contract is going okay. I mean, I'm sure you could find somewhere, even right now across state, there's challenges, but I think this particular benefit, which is not necessarily this vendor or a different vendor, but I think this benefit is one that's more difficult than others to manage. And so we certainly see opportunities for improvement in the program, but I think we've worked really hard over the last year to make what we've got today better. I will say, I think there's the opportunity for us long-term and at the next contracting period to ask whether we want to continue to contract for these services on a PM-PM basis, the way we handle our managed care contracts, or do we want to look at a different structure in terms of how those entities or brokers would be paid. These are services that we want participants to access, and we want them to be able to access them at a really high level. And so perhaps our contracting structure needs to reflect what we actually want to happen with the contract, which is, in this case, increased utilization. Yeah, because if someone's not utilizing this piece, then that means they're not accessing the primary care in the way they should. And so now, I mean, maybe you think you've saved something, but long-term, then you're treating whatever it is at the most costly level, if it's the ER or something, which is, you know, obviously more expensive. So appreciate that description there, and I think we can move to the NDI now. Yeah, so the NDI, Mr. Chairman, is a $3 million request here. As I mentioned, we pay these on a per member per month basis, so much like we do with our managed care contract. We actuarially adjust that rate every year. The dollar amount here is reflective of a 5.5% increase in the rate. So this is one, too, I'd ask you to look at with projections, because if you look back at the core, you know, in FY24, we lapped 7.7 million total, and that's pretty consistent over the last three years. And so, you know, I wonder, I get you're just mathing out the actuary increase, you're asking for it, I believe it's happening here, but, you know, I wonder, do we really truly need this, even to account for the actuary increase, if you consider the lapse there? And why would we have lapse? I mean, we kind of know what the contract is, or is it that we're paying on per member per month, and that fluctuates, and so our number of per members that we've, so therefore the number we've paid per month has been maybe lower than what our projections have been? Yeah, same story, Mr. Chairman. Our utilization, our number of members that we've got have gone down, which will lead to some lapse, but as is typically the case, the members that remain on tend to be higher utilizers than those who came off, and so you'll typically see an increase in utilization, so. Okay. Move on to GEMT on page 1499. You'll see some pieces of the GEMT program in a couple of different spots. Essentially what this mechanism is, is it allows us to use, once again, that intergovernmental transfer authority to help pay ambulance districts up to the Medicaid share of the cost. It's a program that's relatively new in Missouri. There's no general revenue associated with it, but it does allow us to make enhanced payments to our ambulance providers. Happy to answer any questions. Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. I do, thank you, Mr. Chair. So looking at the unexpended line and that, is it fair to say that the ambulance districts are getting what is required from them? Is there any of them that are out there wanting for more and not getting it? Representative, are you looking at the unexpended line for FY25? Looking at 24 is the last number.where I see I'm on the right page just kind of the trend there yes yes it's we're taking care of the ambulance yes yes okay these are gonna be so these are situations where they just don't have unmet unmet cost needs or they're not participating in the program which it is a voluntary program so yes it's a reflection though of the costs are being met okay good like I said just want to be sure we're taking care of them thank you mr. chair representative John black you have an inquiry you may proceed Thank You mr. we've talked previously director about a it was been described as a pilot program or not a pilot program or a continuing pilot program or whatever it is with regard to a a what might be considered an EMT trance transport program that really doesn't require any transport it was a project that allowed emergency personnel to get reimbursed by Medicaid for providing services in the home that that they normally wouldn't get paid for because that my understanding is normally that requires a transport what is the status of that have we figured that out we do have a program representative called treat no transport which is included in our budget it's not reflected in the G and T section but it is a part of our budget and I can it's part of a larger section so I need to break have them break out what the utilization has been we've also had conversations around the notion of making better use of community paramedics which is a little different than the treat no transport concept but it's that same concept of trying to leverage the ambulance providers as another source of you know a community provider that can help avoid an ER visit or something it's gonna be much more expensive down the road so I'll certainly have the team break out where we are on the treat no transport expenses and and specific section that's in thank you and we think that program is still active correct it's in rehab I thought it was in rehab and specialty services which it is page 799 of the program's book which you won't have in front of you but that's where that program description is located okay and so the amount of funding there and how much it's been spent if we're using it or not using it all that is in the program description I'll need to do the breakout on that piece because it's part of that that much broader and more comprehensive rehab and specialty services subsection but we can we can go to work on that thank you please continue moving on 1504 complex rehab technology so we talked a little bit a minute ago about the rehab services and what's in the sort of regular DME this is the the complex durable medical equipment so these would be things like customized individualized wheelchairs stuff that needs to be highly customized for a specific specific and unique need 14 million dollars is the request here okay moving on to 1511 this is the core of our managed care program page 15 excuse me just the following next page will give you a little bit of a look at where our spend has been overall we've already talked today about the actuarial increase this is reflecting here in the upper right hand corner of 1512 sort of the utilization or the enrollment side of this story so you can see our managed care spend in in the core is actually down from where it was in FY 22 but that has resulted in an increase in the actuarially set rate that we're paying on a per member basis so happy to answer any questions about the managed care core great next is the managed care GMT core so for our ambulance services that are provided in to our managed care participants this is a extension of the other GMT program that just started January 1st of this year we'll expect our first payment to be in in January 1st of 2026 do have CMS approval for we're pending CMS approval for the extension of that program page 1523 this is a GR pickup for managed care so at the tail end of the budget process last year three hundred and thirty six million dollars of our managed care core was coded as a one-time expense obviously managed care goes to support the ongoing needs for our population and it's not really a one-time expense so this is the GR pickup associated with that with that decision the redeterminations which more so a FSD question I realize than for you and I don't know if there's anybody here that could speak to that if that's or you know obviously we'll get to that in the coming days but there is a relation here obviously potentially and again I don't know from the pandemic requirements if all those have been completed and again you're as we talked about earlier generally your projections still go go higher so you you know even though you all aren't obviously you know in every case determining eligibility or doing the redeterminations you know you have to be talking to your colleagues I assume at FSD and figuring factoring that in or you should be I assume you are right in projections and how you understand this and so certainly not surprising to me that there's an NDI here but you know I do wonder you know is it you know is the amount that was one time you know is that exactly what the ongoing need is and I don't know can you speak to that in any way I mean do we think there's people that are still on the program that aren't actually eligible that that might continue to roll off in the future there's always going to be some ebb and flow and ineligibility and numbers within the population so the general plan managed care so I'm setting a G to the side we've seen some of those populations decline pretty significantly and we've seen other areas like chip you know increase and so trying to figure out how that balance is out within this line I think from an enrollment perspective is difficult I director Evans and she'll tell you on Monday I'm sure we'll tell you that applications for more health net coverage are still coming in at a rate much higher than we would have expected which is obviously adding to FSD's workload and it's adding to our caseload we're still doing the redetermination work and we'll continue to do that I don't know that I have a gut on where whether utilization is going to go up or down from here our projections for this population are largely flat and I think you know we may be up or down a little bit but I think we're probably in line with where we were last year okay thank you for that explanation anything additional from the committee on this new decision item okay representative Chapel you have an inquiry you may proceed so so we we gave a one time for the last fiscal year is that correct and it was this amount yes and what was the outcome of that did we spend all of it is there was there any leftover did I mean what what are we looking at representative I'd have to we could take a look at our supplemental request we had we used the bulk of this money now we're had some laps that was used to offset other needs and reduce the amount of the supplemental but the outcome was we still this is not a situation where the money was unfunded it was just the way that it was funded last year no I understand but if we if we are also at the same time looking at other line I'm sorry and so this is kind of a separate standalone NDI kind of like what we were talking about earlier so kind of to true up the last we do do reductions in the core to kind of true up the laps versus just this one-time item just so we can keep it clean and have separate conversations which I realize sometimes confuses it sometimes you know doesn't we didn't want to roll it all together in one decision point so well yeah that was my question because I know that there are other lines that have had laps and the department by the way has done a really good job of taking that into account on some of the requests I want to thank you all for that and yeah and that decision is made in the core so you'll you'll see an estimated lapse cut in the core so it's kind of a separate but if we use some of the funding from last year to flex over into other areas that we're wanting because we didn't want to have more supplemental requests why do we think we need the same amount going forward is against my question so representative the if you look on 1515 and Tony may have some more helpful numbers back all the way from the beginning but yeah if we go all the way back to I can demonstrate the same thing on on 1515 but what we've done is in the core of those areas we've taken we've taken the reduction that we think is is represents the true amount that we're going to need on an ongoing basis the 336 we fully had at our disposal last year it just wasn't appropriated in an ongoing fashionso it's it's not in that core. So if we took the core reduction but did not have that 336 put back in the core we'd be way underwater. As Director Lubring was was saying we could have done this the other way. We could have left the core without the core reduction and we could have asked for less in the GR and the GR pickup. It would have left us in the same place in terms of the overall authority though. How would have it impacted the use of GR though? It would have been the same. Identical. Been the same. Yes. All right. Thank you. This is GR this is GR either way it's just coded to one time last year versus being coded as an ongoing expense which then would have made it a part of our core going forward. Yeah I understand. Three hundred and thirty six million dollars forever and ever amen makes me nervous and so I'm just asking. Thank you. And just to be clear when you say last year you speaking of last year's budget cycle and machinations it's actually this this one time is reflected in the current fiscal year that we're in today fiscal year 2025 and so if this NDI was not approved then in fiscal year 2026 there would be three hundred and thirty six million two hundred sixty one thousand six hundred and forty seven dollars at least less in the core than there was in FY 25 and FY 24. Yes. And so forth so that's that's kind of where we stand today so okay thank you we can continue. Okay page 1525 this is the core for our managed care specialty plan. Now I think two years ago we made the decision to take our managed care participants that were in state custody so that's primarily kids in foster care and put them under a single managed care plan with enhanced benefits. It also included the management of the behavioral health benefit. We've been really pleased overall with the operation of this program and think it's providing some excellent additional services and and better coordination of benefits for part of our population that desperately needs it. So three hundred fifty two million dollars is the cost of that specialty plan. I should note within that tab in your book there actually are two budget sections on page 1532. There is the managed care specialty plan portion of the GEMT. As I mentioned we talked about GEMT it's listed in a number of different sections. Okay page 1537 this is the core of our hospital care six hundred and thirty two million dollars all funds. This reimburses hospitals for the fee-for-service inpatient and outpatient services. Does not represent all the payments made to hospitals as we talked about multiple times a lot of those expenses are in the core of managed care because they're paid by the managed care program. Page 1544 we had a number of capital improvement projects for hospitals and clinics that have been included in the social services and Mohealthnet budget over the last couple of years. This section is those capital improvement projects zeroed out here as they were one-time appropriations. Next on page 1554 this is the core for our new torch hub model. This is a model that has been born out of our Medicaid office of transformation and torch stands for the transformation of rural community health. It's an ongoing pilot that we have started went live in in August of last year with six communities across the state and essentially the model puts a rural hospital in the position of being the quarterback to try to improve certain community health metrics. State funding and and the associated federal dollars provide some upfront infrastructure dollars for personnel and also some dollars to pay for what we refer to internally as b3 services which is just a reference to where we get the federal authority. But these are things that may not be traditional medical services but we know have a direct impact on health. The idea really is twofold. One we hope it's a potential piece not the solution but a potential piece of rural hospital sustainability going forward. But second it really is one of those value-based payment type of models where we believe long-term the model will be funded not through direct appropriation but through a shared savings mechanism that's generated from reducing hospitalizations that occur in that region. So this is the we're the only state in the country that has this model because we developed it and and grew it ourselves. We're really excited about it. Our transformation team has given probably a half a dozen or more presentations to folks in national audience about this and I hope that we're sitting here next year asking you guys to give us a little additional resources to expand the program because we found it to be really successful. So happy to answer any questions about torch. Seeing none, 1559 physician payments for safety net hospitals. This is an item that is funded again through an IGT payment that helps make additional payments for physician services at safety net hospitals. This is Truman Medical Center. That's just to say University Health. Next on page 1564 this is the core of our FQHC sections. Big caveat this is not all of the services provided in an FQHC. Those are going to be found in the physician services line or in managed care. This is a set of specific grant programs that the state has authorized over the years. So if you do look back at the program book there is a good description of the programs that that are funded in this line. Total request here is five million dollars of all funds. You will see that there is not a standard FMAP on these services because these are dollars that are more associated with the administration of Medicaid than the provisions of medical services. So happy to answering questions on the FQHC core. Seeing none, 1589 program that we are really fond of at MohealthNet have been for a number of years. This is our primary care health home program. So this is a program whereby we provide a per member per month fee to our clinics, hospital providers for doing more care coordination for people that have chronic conditions or complex medical needs. It's a program that has has been a real success in terms of achieving some of our program objectives with it which is reducing things like emergency department utilization, have better management of chronic disease. 28 million dollars is the request here. Why on if you look on page 1590 if what you I mean you say what you say it sounds like a positive program and you know something that you'd think you'd want to see continue at a similar level if not expand perhaps if anything. But this program has been shrinking over the past three years from 25 and a half million FY 22 and actual expenditures to 21 million in FY 24 which you know as a percentage of the total not insignificant and you know over just a three-year period. So curious as to what's causing that trend line here if you have any thoughts on that. Yeah Mr. Chairman I mean it's a utilization based program and it's you know a direct function of the number of people enrolled in the program. We'd like to see more enrolled in the program. How is it voluntary are we able to push people into it? What is the incentive to for someone to enroll or to volunteer? Better coordination of services there's no direct incentive to to the participant. So that's part of part of the challenge is it's voluntary and you know the other thing I will say you're gonna see in the next section in NDI for a rate increase. We've been relatively flat with this rate on a per member per month basis you know going all the way back to 2015 the program's inception. So we have a small relatively small NDI request that will help support community health workers being part of the care team inside of that PCHH program which represents a rate increase to the to the per member per month. So our hope is that by adding that additional piece to the rate that we're able to get more facilities to become primary care health homes and hopefully in doing so increase the utilization. Thank you. And I think I also just talked about the next NDI so. You did yeah I think you covered that pretty well I mean it is 10.8 million dollars obviously GR federal and other. What's the other there I guess I'll ask that since we're on it. Oh that's your FRA okay okay that makes sense. Any other questions on the NDI? Very good thank you. 1598 this was a small piece added last year to the primary care health home program for children with with complex needs complex medical conditions just a small extension of the primary care health program to different population last year 1.13. You'll see that the utilization isis low, there will be an opportunity to journal voucher that at the end of the year back to the existing authority. So, that utilization may look a little higher than it does here in the book. Next, 1603, the federal reimbursement allowance, this is, as we've talked about today, one of our provider tax-based structures that help us with the financing of the program. The total request here is $1.6 billion, unchanged department request to GOVREC. The dollars you're seeing here are both the state share, which is included in the 536, and the federal draw associated with that. So, happy to answer any questions on the FRA. Representative Vogel, you have an inquiry you may proceed. Yeah, I'm just curious why the overall number went down from past years. It's less need in FRA, so FRAs are being used to support payments for hospital services. We've seen a decline overall in those services, and so the need to collect the FRA to generate the federal match is just not there. Fortunately, it's allowed us to be able to go from, it's allowed us to be able to dramatically lower the rate at which we're collecting the tax. So, 2015, I think our FRA rate was right at 5.95, which is basically the highest you can get. Today, we'd be under 5. Okay. Makes sense. Next is CHIP on page 1608. There are actually two sections located here, but I'll take this first one, and then we'll ask why there's another GEMT section, but there is one. CHIP is a program where we've been experiencing some increases in enrollment, as we've talked about throughout the day. You can see that most graphically on page 1609. We look at the ramp up from FY22 to where we are in FY24. This is almost certainly a direct result of changes at the federal level, which required continuous eligibility for people in the CHIP program. So the total request here is $390 million of all funds. That's a little bit down from where we were at department requests, because we've seen a very slight flattening out of the enrollment trend within that population. The second section here is just the CHIP portion of the GEMT program. Page 1620, this is the core of Show Me Healthy Babies. Total request is $71 million, all funds. This is a program that's been in place now for probably seven or eight years in Missouri that provides services for essentially the unborn children of low-income women up to 300% of the federal poverty level. So I'm happy to answer any questions on Show Me Healthy Babies. Page 1627, this is our school district administrative claiming section. There are two pieces to this. There's school district administrative claiming, and there is also the services claiming for IEP services that might be provided in the school. So those are school-based health care services. This is a program that's incredibly popular across the state with our school districts. $140 million is the request here, with very little general revenue. This is pretty wild to me, the expansion of this over time. Do you have a list of school districts that participate in this, of the 500 and whatever it is? Yeah, I don't have it with me, but we definitely have that list. And what you'll find is we were up to an incredibly high percentage of school districts participating on the administrative claiming side. The school-based health care services has been a little less than that and not ramped up quite as fast, but it's still pretty high. So I'll be happy to provide the committee the whole list of the participants. Yeah, we would appreciate that. And do you all provide assistance with school districts? I mean, do they call you as it relates to, you know, from the very beginning of how to do this and the claiming? Or where do they go? Do they hire a consultant? I mean, because you just go back, I mean, this is just, you know, I mean, it was $64 million just, you know, just FY22, you know, and now this year the request is $140 million. And so... Yes, Mr. Chairman, we do provide that support, and you inadvertently giving me the opportunity to give a shout-out to somebody who's back at our office who's listening right now. It's a woman named Glenda Kramer, who you would never know her name if you hadn't asked me this question. But Glenda Kramer is one of those state employees who make state government work, and Glenda has responsibility, among other things, over the school district claiming program. So I'm going to make sure we get a summary of exactly what kind of outreach is there, because there's a role for us in that, and there's also a role for our colleagues at DESE. So I want to be able to get you a full answer to that, and I know our team, led by Glenda, will be able to help with that. Also, Tony also provided me a little bit of information from the program book on the trend in terms of the uptake of those services. And school district, the school-based services claiming was an FY20-21 start, so started much later than the administrative claiming. So we have seen a pretty significant ramp-up in that over the last three years from about $31 million in 22 actuals to there being $58 million in 24. It's not in your budget specifically, but one thing, and I don't know if you all have looked at this or if you could talk to your colleagues at DESE, you know there's certain special education funding that's provided in House Bill 2 that's specifically exclusively general revenue funding. And so it's not a burden to the districts, but it is to the state, and we don't have access to federal dollars for those. And I don't know if this is, you know, in some cases I would think that, and maybe all that is being claimed, that can be claimed, is being claimed, but I do wonder, you know, if Medicaid dollars are participating to the maximum effort and level. I asked them somewhat a similar question on Monday, still not totally sure, and there's some parental involvement involved in all of this, and I understand that, at least I understand that as an explanation. But I am curious if you all have looked at that or if you could look at that just to ensure that, you know, the GR dollars, now, again, granted this is in House Bill 2, but it does occur to me that at least in theory, you know, there could be Medicaid dollars being utilized, which is at least partially, obviously, general revenue, but not exclusively in lieu of total full freight general revenue for those services. Yep. We'll be glad to take a look at it, Mr. Chairman. I don't know the answer off the top of my head whether that would be eligible or not, but let me take a look at what the services are and we'll ask our team to take a look at it and see if there's opportunity. Thank you. Representative Black, do you have something on this? Please proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is a program where providers, or maybe direct school employees, if I remember and understand are in the schools to be able to provide medical services, mental health services available to children who are Medicaid eligible, is that correct? Yes. And so, as a result of that, these kids are getting help at a young age that they might not have got at all without this program. They might not have seen a provider, but they are seeing providers and hopefully dealing with their issues while they're kids in school and not when they're out of school and maybe fixed in their ways. And I don't know whose idea this was, if this was yours or a federal idea, and it's only, like you said, very little GR for a gigantic federal match, this is a great program. I can't take credit for it, I can tell you that, and I know it's a program done nationally, so I don't know who deserves the credit, Representative, but I do know that it's a funding source that we've been really happy to be a small part of trying to enable because it does good things. Yeah, I appreciate your enabling, and the lady that you talked about apparently being very serious about this to help these children, so thank you. 1633, Blind Pension Healthcare Benefits, this is a GR-only healthcare benefit that we make available in Missouri, $23 million is the request. Page 1640, this is the core of the adult expansion group population, we talked earlier today about where the enrollment and the population has been, and the spend trend, this represents the core of that program at 2.9 with the state share being included in that federal amount as we talked about earlier. Yes, so, which is a little, again, misleading if you didn't know the context there, that we were one of those states under the American Rescue Plan that hadn't expanded then did expand and so for eight quarters, right, that's two years.two years we received an additional 10 percent that we put in the FMAP enhancement expansion fund which we've been funding expansion on so far which is why it all shows up in the federal. What is the GR piece annually? I guess if if we had it split out and whether the actuals would come in as far as what you're budgeted here 2.9 billion it's it's just 10 percent of that right pretty pretty easy figuring we're around 300 million dollars 10 percent less the other the other funds we are using a portion of FRA to fund this so that would be included in the state share so the GR number would be 10 percent of that 2.9 less the other. So I just looked at the form 9 and with what you've got the total appropriations out of FMAP enhancement expansion fund for FY 26 it actually shows that you know if it was fully expended I don't know that you know I'm not necessarily assuming that it is going to be but if it were to be it would be a deficit of 80 million dollars if I'm reading it right which obviously isn't possible and so you know we would see a supplemental for that this time next year if if this projection actually proved to be accurate is that correct? Mr. Chairman I believe we think that it's into FY 27 before that money would run out now there's there is a scenario in which we'd be out of that money in FY 26 but you know we had some discussion here this morning and certainly can visit with you more offline show you you know how we get to that conclusion we think the money will stretch long enough to get us into FY 27 before we've got a GR pickup need. I think that's probably true uh I think I I think that is true I mean I I think that probably is how it works out I will say by your numbers and it's not um but we're talking about a few months time it's either going to be at the end of FY 26 or probably towards the beginning of FY 27 is probably the range is where the money runs out right fair to say. And and that's more of a the 80 million on that foreign mine is more of how the foreign mines are working really what we should we're still getting used to the new system so really for FY 25 and 26 we should be showing some unexpended authority. Yeah there's some laps in there. Right so that 80 million assumes the full authority that we're going to spend we're probably not going to spend it we're probably only going to spend around 250 instead of 311 so there's about a 60 million dollar for 25 and 26 the form 9 assumes we're going to spend that we probably won't spend I don't know if that helps. I want to you know make sure that the committee is aware of as we think about FY 26 and FY 27 um very easily and it's going to be something it could be up to say a 300 million dollar NDIGR pickup for FY 27 to continue the same level of government um so we had a similar conversation with DESE obviously Monday with 160 million dollars of NDIs relating to child care subsidy changes that were funded with federal one-time funds um so that's 160 million here's 300 millions that's 460 million if we're to you know continue as we're you know receiving these requests and that's how we proceed just I just want the committee to be mindful uh and on this exactly what month and you know and it's certainly going to be there is going to be I guess let me ask you this just to make sure um you know because I don't even think this is my opinion at this point uh it's just you know it would appear to be the math but while we don't know what the exact amount would be and the exact you know month therefore then and at what point in the fiscal year we would run out of the dollars because there's no more money coming in the FMAP enhancement expansion fund that was we've earned those dollars that period is a lapse and that's over with uh it would be fair and and true to say that in FY 27 there is going to be a GR pickup for the adult expansion group yes we just don't know what it's going to be right thank you um it's page 1646 uh this is the core for uh the AEG portion of the MOMAPS program we talked about uh MOMAPS a little bit before this is uh funds and enhanced uh physician payment um this is just an amount that wasn't accounted for uh for the AEG portion of that spend it's all funded through an intergovernmental transfer 16 million dollars is the request any questions thank you Mr. Chairman uh page 1651 uh is a new decision item associated with that AEG MOMAPS um this is the same as what was included in our supplemental request so this is the piece that was not accounted for in in last year's budget page 1655 this is uh the AEG DMH IGT we talked all the way back at the beginning of the day about uh DMH and their uh IGT uh or intergovernmental transfer this is the AEG portion uh of that piece and so as a result it's listed here 130 million dollars is the core of that new decision item that's no no general revenue and then we're at 1660 this is the AEG uh public uh GMT program same as we've talked about in other sections um 17 million dollars is the portion associated with the adult expansion group now we move to 1665 uh this is uh the core of our non-count transfers so these don't represent actual spending amounts but they represent transfers so that we can demonstrate that we have put up that level of state share which enables us to draw down those federal payments there's 137 million dollars listed here and that is actually the end of the Mohealthnet portion there are two sections before before we get real excited about that sir if i could interrupt um i i didn't hear the last part that you said you said it's not actual expenditure is what now yeah they're non-count transfers so in order when we use things like the intergovernmental transfer functions or our provider tax structure we have to demonstrate um that those dot that there's those dollars are being used for the state share portion so this is the accounting mechanism where they'll be transferred into the state um but they don't represent additional spending beyond what you're seeing represented in the core those dollars associated with those non-count transfers the actual spending portion of those dollars is listed in the programmatic areas so the 60 million in lapse each year that's not actual 60 million in lapse wish it was okay all right so that was that's the end all right um people seem to be voting with their feet we're going to take five minutes and then we're going to come back for department of conservation thank you you kim oh helen i thought it was kim it's not all right so we i'm going to call this uh the uh committee back into session we have one more department left with one new decision item and uh we're gonna we're gonna look at this uh we'll be uh i i'm the sub approves chair for this portion of the budget we've talked mr director somewhat uh i anticipate we'll be speaking more uh certainly after and i we've i told you this before but i want everybody to know everybody on the sub approves committee for this portion of the budget after the crazy is over and the senate has our version uh we will also be having hearings on oversight and review and we're going to look backwards uh as well and just say okay where are we at what are we doing how are we doing it so we won't be quite finished with you today but uh we are looking forward to your presentation so at your at your uh pace or proceed all right well thank you for that good afternoon uh for the record my name is jason summoners i serve as the director of the missouri department of conservation and if it is acceptable we'll go ahead and begin with an overview highlighting some of the work we've accomplished as a department over the last year as well as giving an overview of the new spending approved by the conservation commission and i'll ask each one of my deputies to come up and provide a little bit of perspective of each one of the strategic goals um in the executive budget book i'd like to mention that the executive budget book includes the department's expenditure plan which is available on the department website the commission does review this expenditure plan in april during a budget workshop that is open to the public and prior to its approval at the may commission meeting additionally the commission does review uh revenues expenditures monthly to ensure fiscal conservative approach the department of conservation centers around three strategic goals in addition to our department strategic initiatives these goals are how also how we budget these include goal one mdc takes careof Nature, which is led by Deputy Director Laura Conley. This goal includes our habitat management activities on public and private lands and encompasses fish and wildlife management activities carried out by agency staffs in our Statewide Resource Management Branch, Community and Private Lands Conservation, Protection and Science Branches, as well as fisheries, forestry, natural resource planning, and wildlife sections. Goal 2, MDC Connects People with Nature, which is led by Deputy Director Aaron Jeffries. This goal focuses on recreational management through the implementation of action plans to help Missourians access recreational areas and community conservation, in which we provide technical assistance to local government groups and citizens to help incorporate development practices that create quality habitat for people and nature. In addition, this goal includes our education and communication efforts, providing efficient nature-based education programs to diverse audiences, showcasing the importance of nature and economic vitality and quality of life, as well as cultivating partnerships with organizations that build on our capacity to deliver conservation. The work under this goal is largely accomplished by staff in the Office of the Director, along with staff in Education, Communication, and Marketing and our Relevancy Branch. Goal 3, MDC Maintains Public Trust, which is led by Deputy Director Andrew Bond. The final goal focuses on business conservation and our responsibility to ensure Missourians' investment in conservation are used wisely through overall administrative oversight of our programs and activities to protect and manage fish, forest, and wildlife resources of the state. This work is performed by staff in our conservation business services, human resources, information technology, and infrastructure management branches. As many of you know, our agency was created by the citizens in 1936. Since then, we've remained committed to listening to Missourians who are eager to tell us what they would like to see from the Department of Conservation. We publicly seek input from over 200,000 citizens each year through surveys, online comments, area planning, and the regulations process. We use a variety of survey techniques to gather citizen input. Comments and suggestions provided by the public are used to improve the programs and services Missourians have come to expect from the Department of Conservation. We believe that all Missourians are important and want to earn their trust. Our job is to listen, understand, and personally deliver programs and services that benefit all Missourians and the fish, forest, and wildlife resources of the state. Surveys indicate 73% of Missourians say they are familiar with, or very familiar with, the Department of Conservation, 85% of Missourians are interested in Missouri's fish, forest, and wildlife resources, 76% agree MDC is a name I can trust, and 64% say MDC uses its funds wisely to benefit citizens and nature. They're good numbers, but we continue to strive to do better. On the revenue side of things, included in the program book that was provided electronically, the Department of Conservation relies mainly on three revenue sources to support its expenditures. 60% of our revenues are from the conservation sales tax, 15% from honey and fishing permit sales, 18% from federal reimbursements. The Department's budget represents 0.4% of the state's total operating budget, and we receive no general revenue funds. Chairman Chappell and Representative Sharp stated a few weeks ago that many of the agencies in House—in HB 5 and 6 are economic generators for the state. Conservation is certainly one of those. The total economic impact of fish and wildlife recreation and forest products industry is more than $19 billion annually, and supports over 100,000 Missouri jobs. Missourians and non-residents spend more than $5.8 billion annually on fish and wildlife recreation, which generates an economic impact of $7.8 billion. A good example is the state Missouri National Archery and the Shooting Program's tournament that will occur in Branson in a couple weeks, which will generate more than $10 million in economic impact over the four-day tournament. And the amount of sales tax revenue generated from fish, forest, and wildlife spending is more than the one-eighth of 1% received by the department. In other words, we like to say conservation pays its way in Missouri. The governor's recommendation for fiscal year 2026 is $240.9 million, which includes $26.1 million in increases. If there are any questions related to the commission-approved projects, I'd be happy to answer them now, or we can go through each one of those with the committee. Does anyone have any general questions of the director before we get into the pages of the book? Would not appear so, sir. Go ahead when you're ready. Okay, so our increases are listed on page 12, which include cross-cutting appropriations, $5.4 million for the Conservation Commission Compensation Plan to continue market-based pay. The commission will review the compensation plan prior to approving the budget in May of 2025 at their commission meeting. $3.7 million for increased costs for research projects to inform management of our state fish, forest, and wildlife resources. $1.3 million for increased costs to expenses and equipment and replacements for habitat management. Under Goal 1, Habitat Management, $1.4 million for grassland and bottomland forest habitat work as part of strategic initiatives, $1 million for the implementation of the Missouri Forest Resilience Cost-Sharing Initiative with U.S. Forest Service, $746,000 to reduce invasive aquatic species through the Aquatic Nuisance Species Grant and Scenic Rivers Invasive Species Partnership, $500,000 for the implementation of community conservation habitat inventory and mapping solutions, $295,000 for increased costs to continue the elevation-derived hydrography and national wetland inventory updates, $250,000 to increase contract-prescribed burn plans for landowners. This is estimated to establish 250 contract burns with planned costs of about $1,000 per plan. $97,000 increase to capacity to support wildfires, $100,000 for increase for feral hog eradication efforts. Under Goal 1, Fish and Wildlife Management Outcome 1.2, $922,000 for chronic waste and disease efforts, including increased surveillance, meat processing, expenditure expenses, and communication efforts. Go to Page 4. Excuse me, sir. Yep. Representative Mayhew, do you have an inquiry? Yes. Thank you. So, I'm not finding it in here, the feral hog eradication. What page was that on? The addition is listed on Page 12. Yeah. Okay. So, do we have a line in here for the total amount that we're spending on this year? On feral hogs? Yeah. On feral hog eradication efforts. Is that the total amount that we're spending out of the conservation budget? No. That would be the increase for FY26. Oh, okay. All right. I see it. Would I find the remainder of that line? It should be in Outcome 1.1. It would fall under Outcome 1.1. We view the feral hog elimination efforts as things that impact habitat of other wildlife species. So, it would fall under Outcome 1.1. So, is there, I apologize for this, is there a specific breakout for the total amount or is that something you can get back to me with later? Yeah, we can certainly get back to you with that later. So, what I'm looking for is the total amount that we're spending on, if you've got a history on that also, you know, over the time period that we've been doing this, that'd be great too. Yeah. Yeah. We certainly can provide that. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You bet. Go ahead and proceed when you're ready, sir. Yeah. Great question. $498,000 to increase ecological health resources to improve monitoring the state's fish, forest, and wildlife. $670,000 for BAT Habitat Conservation Plan permit costs for the 50-year permit that surveys to monitor priority BAT management zones. $481,000 for increased costs to Conservation Agent Basic Training Academy and Conservation Agent Equipment. $155,500 for increased costs to better support facilities to improve fish health at our hatcheries. Under Goal 2, Recreational Management, an increase of $250,000 to implement Recruitment Retention and Reactivation Mentorship Program partnership to engage new hunters and anglers. Under Goal 2, Education and Communication Outcome, $250,000 to improve the staff shooting range self-check-in process. Under Goal 3, $2.7 million to increase costs in fleet and heavy equipment replacements and maintenance. $1.8 million for information technology projects. $325,000 to increase broadband connection to approximately 30 remote locations. $98,000 for increased costs for contracts to improve customer experience. Under Goal 3, under Staff Development, $300,000 for increased costs associated with maintaining our human resource management system. $2.77 million for Conservation Employee Benefit Plan for increased health premiums. Any questions related to those increasers? We have one here, Representative Warrick. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just to inquire, I'm curious about that $2.7 million on the cost of increase for fleet and heavy equipment. What kind of, how much equipment, are you looking at one or two pieces? Is that the fleet? I mean, is that across the board? What are you looking at there? So Andrew Bond, Deputy Director of Business and Operations. So the $2.7 for fleet and heavy equipment replacements is across the board. So every year we replace a bunch of equipment. I'm going to get some of the numbers wrong, but we've seen 15%, 10%, and 7% increases in a lot of the fleet and heavy equipment costs. In addition, some of the manufacturers are no longer offering government decreases for us or incentives programs. So we're paying basically fair market value for them. So these are increases that are associated with that. And so every year, so first year, so do apologize about that. So you typically have that $2.7 annually coming out for fleet maintenance on all heavy equipment across the board?So no so normally we have a we replace in the neighborhood of 10 to 12 million dollars of heavy equipment so this is just the increase for this and what is your age what is your age of these people a piece of equipment as they're being it depends on the it depends on the vehicle we have a utilization schedule for every piece of equipment so for instance on our half-ton trucks are about a hundred and forty thousand miles okay and then last question I think in regards to 150 about what they are is what your trucks are that you we we we shoot for 140,000 miles but that's a so some of the patrol I mean some of the agents use them a lot more than others and idle time is higher so we have to replace them and so that's your fleet side right but your heavy equipment is something completely different correct and those are our utilizations versus mileage yeah as you would expect okay thank you thank you mr. yeah just to the you're welcome just to sorry so what happens when you've known somebody a long time you forget about the cordialities the and you all utilize the same statewide just fell out of my head we use the same statewide purchasing contracts as the rest of the state yeah yeah yeah I'm sorry it's bad when the English it's been a long day it's bad when the English words fall out of your head so the very the very same purchasing opportunities that are utilized for MHP and everything you all are utilizing that as well sir all right representative Taylor to inquire mr. proceed please you might if you lose your English you might try your Spanish words that a lot of KC go ahead thank you mr. director deputy director thanks for coming I would point out that if you go to gov deals right now you can kind of take a look at the shape that your vehicles are in because you have a lot of them on there right now so they're always well well used well maintained but well used the line that you have 481,000 free increase cost of the conservation agent basic training Academy can you talk a little bit about what those increased costs are and also where do you stand right now for for your agents as far as vacancies and people coming in have you got good yeah good quality candidates coming in or where do you stand with that yeah those are great questions and so we don't do an agent class or Academy every year we really do it based on need and so the team tries to assess where they currently stand with vacancies and project forward which classes are going to be eligible for retirement trying to anticipate over the next year or two how many additional vacancies might be occurring and so we did not have a class last year we had a class this year we just started that's finishing out or starting now so we're at 17 vacancies we know we got several retirements that are coming we just recruited for a class they will start March 1 quality has still been really pretty good class size the number of applicants has come down some but certainly retention still remains relatively high with the pay plan that we have been able to implement over the last several years so from that standpoint we're in a in a pretty good place what about the you mentioned the increased cost where are you seeing that is it just costing more to put somebody through the Academy or is there yes it absolutely is yeah the housing them during the training cost more all of with as with everything it all costs more to do the business okay I was basically wouldn't see if there was anything specific that was causing an increase but it's just an increase no general increases again like the fleet discussion increases equipment when we're replacing body armor we're replacing firearms again on a regular schedule those things all cost more now than they did previously and like other departments this has come up previously in your rotation of those firearms in particular you're doing to keep keep uniformity you're doing the entire department are you are you rotating you know 25% now 50% later how does that work yes from a training standpoint we try to keep all the equipment uniform so staff are all training with the same things if issues arise they all have a very similar way to address it one of the things that we have worked on is making sure that there are various pieces of equipment that need to be replaced or being replaced on a consistent cycle and then we stagger those so that they're not all coming up at one time right so how can we make that more sustainable okay so they have high quality equipment sure thank you appreciate it thank you mr. chair and then on the firearms question so how many how many how many conservation agents carry firearms across state just ballpark yeah it's right around 200 so when those are going out do we contact like local law enforcement to see if they're interested in purchasing the weapons that we no longer find available I bullet do you know what exact answer that Andrew so as far as I know there's a buyback program from the manufacturer over we get a credit so when we buy the new I see yeah they're probably selling them to the local cops because that's that's how we would get firearms frequently at a reduced price was from that very perspective okay then staff I think have the option to purchase their yeah yeah represent board thank you sorry so to follow up it's similar to that but back on the heavy equipment and fleet do you work with any of the local agencies that you typically may like so different fire districts and stuff I know I think you guys cooperate with on especially in rural Missouri where we may have a lot of field fires and different things like that do you ever work with them in regards to seeing if they need any of that equipment you'd be getting possibly getting rid of so we work actively with rural fire departments and a lot of that is through federal excess property so we actually have a federal excess property center in which our art we've got a team of dedicated staff they're helping facilitate that many times they have to come through us in order for it to get distributed out to and so yeah we have a very active program that supports that we also annually dedicate additional dollars to help those rural fire departments for things that might not fit into that bucket that but that they might need because they are absolutely an important you know frontline and partner in fire suppression and responding to that and so yeah I do all right thank you anybody else have any questions about pages 11 through 16 representative black Thank You mr. chair director don't know your background have you served in state government before yeah I've worked for the Department of Conservation for a little over 16 years thank you and do I understand on page 4 here that and 5 it looks like your annual budget is if I understand what it's saying down here at the bottom of 5 242 million dollars is that correct yeah that's the operating budget so what's the total budget so total budget would include capital improvements which are in house bill 17 18 19 yeah so if we put everything together it's more in the 317 million dollar range and that 17 18 19 that's state funded as opposed to conservation it's all fun also all the retirement the Mosier's contributions those are in house bill 5 so you'll see the Conservation Commission fund in house bill 4 5 6 well so we pay for our own audits 17 18 19 and what how does that all roll up to it's about 320 the benefits and the capital improvements and all of that correct did you say 320 that's in the ballpark I think 317 is about what we were last year okay thank you I just I just couldn't find it in the you know here so I this is just the operating budget for house bill 6 yeah I believe he said 320 ish which is a budgetary technical term representative representative major if I get you are you finished I'm sorry with your inquiry no I wasn't I apologize go right ahead sir the reference to represent mayhew I was appreciated oh no no I was actually calling on representative mayhew to go right ahead sir thank you thank you thank you thank you mr. chair actually here representative blacks not finished with his and that's that was my indelicate I am so sorry no it's my fault not yours go right ahead sir this is a question as I told you in the meeting that I've asked for several years and I'm still asking it and you know a lot of Missourians go to Kansas to hunt quail and I this probably is not a accurate number either I was just trying to pull it up on the on the internet now and it looks like and again there's probably stuff not included here but Kansas is Department of Wildlife and Fish it looks like it's this is 90 million dollars I don't know if that's right or not but at least that's what their annual report seems to say so and we all know that hunting fishing is a gigantic economic development activity and in fact the internet again can't got to be absolutely true if the internet told me economic impact to Kansas for hunting and fishing some estimates are as high as a hundred million dollars so which would be more than their budget which I don't you know so again the and I know and I've heard and the reasons why we can't develop quail habitat Missouri to attempt to keep some of that money in Missouri establish that economic development in MissouriFescue you know I've heard it all so the and I have visited some of the sites where we're trying to develop cohabitat and you know I think generously those are only moderately successful in the experience that I've had in my friends so you know I'm urging the Commission to take a better and harder and out-of-the-box look at that because what we have been doing frankly isn't working very well if our goal is to establish decent quail habitat in the state of Missouri and again I believe it would probably pay off or more than pay off if we were able to do that even if we weren't able to attract a lot of out-of-state hunters all of us that leave the state you know we could rent a motel in Maryville you know I'm talking about so again I'm just urging you to ask the Commission you know if we bought a couple million quail I don't know what your cost would be but I'm sure that it would not be a budget investor but that's just an example so yeah that's my yeah so if I could address representatives question we have had for the last couple years a strategic initiative really focused on grasslands and a strategic initiative focused on quail restoration and substantial financial investments both in habitat management and really focus and targeted land acquisition and working with partners to define focal areas where we can and have had success we have a well restoration landscape in Carroll County in which it is nationally recognized as a place that produces more quail than just about anywhere else per acre and so we do while while we don't have the broad scale quail populations that we once had staff have done innovative things and I would say the the grassland habitat management actions that we've been engaging in in the last five years have substantially increased quail populations some of those local areas I would I would offer that if you follow Deputy Director Jeffries around you would appreciate the the quantity of quail that actually exist on some of our public lands and some of the management actions that are our managers have been very actively engaged in and it really has been a shift in the way that we thought about quail management and so we continue to have well restoration landscape staff dedicated to thinking about what it is what the limiting factors there are and certainly the last couple of years we have seen while we've seen increases in turkey production we've seen the equal or even better increases in quail production and so there has been a very very concerted effort to think about these grassland systems and all the species that depend upon them but with a real focus on quail. Thank you sir and you know I've I've heard most of that before and you know if I'm talking to my friends who want to go quail hunting and actually have a chance to to find a few birds nobody is saying let's go to Missouri you know they're saying let's go to Kansas or let's go to Iowa so I would suggest maybe we could get TJ to get you out on a field trip to see some of the work that we've been doing I think there'd be great benefit in that I have done that and the day I walked around admittedly only one day I don't think we saw a cubby and this is one of your demonstration sites so all I'm saying is I think we need to maybe take another look at this and I would appreciate it thank you representative there's a bunch in your district because we bought them and we missed them so I'm just telling you on my cousin's farm there just north of Rogersville we've been trying to do that very thing but fescue is tough on quail and coyotes are tough on quail and weather conditions bobcats when the fur industry went south and we couldn't we couldn't harvest coyotes anymore it's tough on quail just is but nevertheless representative mayhew so I have a budget question and rather than explore opportunities for quail hunting in Missouri not that that's not a noble thing but just a small comment on representative black is when he mentioned the two million quail needed additionally I think he was referring to deputy director Jeffrey's enthusiasm for the sport and the need for that other two million quail but the question I had for you on the what it looks like we've got 283 and change ish of total revenues coming in and and you had mentioned that the total budget is now summing around 300 and change so the the Commission has noticed that our fund balance has increased over the last few years and has put forth a concerted effort to put one-time construction projects against the fund balance so so having and I'd love that's exactly the direction I wanted you to go so out of this to well you said 300 and something all in out of that 300 and some odd all in how much is part of the spend plan and for doing improvements and just a brief recap on on what those are I would be okay if you had a list of projects and their cost that you could give to us and you know offline but of the CI projects of CI right and and so that is forming that big difference between over the last couple of years correct of where we were at before to where we're at at the 300 and something is mostly those capital improvement projects as part of your spend plan to start taking advantage of that surplus that we've got right yes so a number for that would be great and I you don't have to give it to me right now but what the listing of those projects and how much they're costing us would be beneficial and and and so what what are we looking at at the end of this fiscal year that we're going to be looking at as a reserve in the conservation fund so in 20 fiscal year 24 we spent about 28 million dollars of the fund balance this year it will be a similar amount leaving us a total fund balance of what at the end of this fit this fiscal year we're talking about right here if my if my remembrance is ballpark I think it's in the neighborhood of 60 million so we have we were in that 160 category a couple years ago so representative I may I'm thinking of unreserved so there is a reserve on the Commission fund balance of 70 days of operating expenditures that the Commission put in place so when I speak of the 60 million I'm speaking of the unreserved amount okay reserved and unreserved the total fund balance would be approximately today it's probably in the neighborhood of 88 million which is significant from what it was two years ago okay so that's basically about a 70 million dollar spend down if I did the math in my head correctly over the last two years is that ballpark okay yeah so a listing of those projects and their cost would be very beneficial thank you very much appreciate it mr. chair just to be clear 88 million reserve still accounts for roughly 25% of the annual operating budget though so if everything fell apart you've got enough money to take care of everything for a full quarter yes sir oh that's not just operating okay it's longer than that okay I just have a couple of real quick questions so 3.92 million and 5.3 FTEs for the increased cost to research projects to inform the management of state's fish forests and wildlife is there a specific spend down plan that we might be able to get from you all what that looks like with a job class report as well just we know what's going on yes that question in terms of the specific projects that are funded through that just just where what what do we intend the money to be going do we how many you know with these 5.3 FTEs where are they going are these replacements are these the vacancy we've already got that we're just trying to fill or these brand-new FTEs in spite of the vacancies some mr. chair the the actual this was our department request the governor did not recommend any FTEs no FTEs at all from the governor's wreck okay this represents our department request if you if you saw the governor wreck it would not include any of the FTA or the PAS associated with those all right all right and the $746,000 on the invasive aquatic species it now is that a new program or is that pre-existing I mean what are we doing there yes so that's a program that we've been had a number of pilot projects it is really Mississippi River basin wide initiative in which we have been partnering with commercial fishermen and women to try to increase the take of invasive carp species specifically that's a big chunk of it and so multi-state cooperative efforts Illinois is implementing programs Tennessee Kentucky and a huge portion of this funds is actually federal dollars I support that program and absent the governor's support in future years but do you anticipateroad this will require specified STEs for this this program given that it's federally funded given that it's very very specific to that region and those species yeah for us from a staff standpoint we've we've we've shifted some positions and roles and responsibilities around okay to accommodate that work again as we continue to prioritize what are some of the most important things that can and should happen we do that as necessary necessary all right sir all right thank you very much any other questions yes ma'am representative thank you just a real quick one good afternoon the hundred and eighty five thousand FTE for additional Kansas City region education and engagement staff just curious about who are the targets I know you have a wide variety of programs and wide variety of ages that participate in these programs is it specific programs or it's all programs specific age group or all ages I asked deputy director Jeffries to address that one good afternoon mr. chairman members committee deputy director Aaron Jeffries Missouri Department of Conservation good question representative as deputy director Andrew Bond indicated the governor's recommendations did not include in the any additional FTS but we do have five conservation educators in the st. Louis and the Kansas City region this position would have been located out of the Discovery Center which is in our tier one priority community conservation focus area so they would have been working with schools elementary schools high schools in that area putting on various programs as well as expanding the department's discover nature schools program that I'll talk about when I get up on goal to thank you representative sharp the comment before to get out of here I guess the first thing I'm following up on representative black I've accompanied him and to the state west of us and they do seem to take our money pretty well over there and for for what we do and that's what we usually go for as but however as someone that farms about a thousand acres that we haven't done a great lot at times for habitat but I would say the the chair's comment about fur-bearing creatures that I'd say raccoons have probably done more to wipe out quail eggs nests and everything else put together so or possums or all the other things that that prey on those species as someone that has eight counties up in the northeast corner having those agents because some areas actually like having those agents and also to have bright young people come into your community or the people that are on your school boards or the people that pump quite a little bit into your community so since you seem to have quite a little bit of money I would encourage you to to hire more people out into those areas because it is kind of an economic development for parts of our counties the other thing that Department of Conservation has done that I would say has not been a great thing in the rural areas is that when they eliminate the deer check stations that for most of the counties this was the social event of the year that when you had to check your deer in that that was was really a good thing that I know technology with phones and whatnot that everybody thinks are much more efficient but but I'll maintain that and I haven't shot a deer since 77 but I went uptown and watched the deer come in in the mornings at night you know watching the the large deer or whatnot come in and that's something that I really think you know maybe you save a lot of money not subsidizing those stations or whatnot but your PR game was really great in those counties when people had to check their deer in and I just think that's something that's really been lost in a lot of the rural areas that when that when that went away it was almost like it really killed a part of Missouri rural communities and that was really a great thing and I would encourage I mean you don't have it you know everybody buy their hunting license online or whatnot but that was really a great thing in rural Missouri and I would really think it would do the Conservation Department a lot of good to think about going back to those that part so thank you yeah I certainly appreciate your comments and we recognize and our staff very much take pride in being parts of the community right I mean it is very much work with with the local communities and landowners and stuff that makes the work conservation possible and successful and I think we often do think about what impact it does have on on many of those rural communities and and you're absolutely right deer hunting and other outdoor activities is a huge economic driver for for many small communities especially across North Missouri one of the things I would say is that as we have implemented mandatory sampling related to chronic waste and disease management on opening weekend it has been a little bit of that test case of what are the implications of requiring folks to go back into in-person checking and we hear lots of mixed comments there is no doubt there is tremendous value of us having the opportunity to set and chat with and explain you know how things are going hear from a broad group of people we also receive a fair bit of pushback from those who don't want to be hassled with that in fact are telling us they're actively avoiding shooting deer on opening weekend because they don't want to have to take that deer to in-person checking when they can wait until Monday and and just check it online and so there's a bit of a balancing act there I I do appreciate the fact that we are missing an opportunity to have some touch points with the public and that it likely did have some economic impact on some of those small communities so it's a challenging one for us to work through well I'm kind of surprised because most of the things we don't really seem to mind too much that that we make people comply with certain things and any more than ours County had a CWD check you know at least the first weekend maybe the last weekend but I just I do and we've had the season you made it wider and we talked about losing quail habitat or whatever that certain species have almost disappeared and the deer population has just exploded not just in the urban areas but in in you know where we're at where it's or we're almost need to go back to nuisance permits to start taking some of them down and whatever the CWDs done week it hasn't really seemed to you know we just haven't really seemed to have had a great lot of that or or whatever it is it's killing off the weak ones and the big ones are taken over you know but anyway I just wanted to bring those suggestions to you but that part when you tell people what they have or have to do there they are your dear you think you kind of tell us all the way we're supposed to do it anyway so it would be nice I know I'm close enough to Pike County Illinois and which is what the biggest deer County in the state over there and most of the convenience stores will say we live for deer season we try to we'd like to break even the rest of the year but we actually that's our our moneymaker that those couple three weeks you know during season so I hope while you've got the resources that should be you know think a little more about what because we're not getting reimbursed for what you eat off me I farm about a thousand acres up there and we just at times I think we could be our population if we wanted a lot of deer we've got them so anyway so thank you yeah yeah to address that that's that's because folks aren't willing to shoot the larger quantities of deer that we need them to do and so I think we're just always really cautious of anything that might be an additional barrier to them doing that and and there are a number of them but I completely agree there is no doubt that hunting and angling is absolutely critical to so many of our small communities and it has a huge economic impact we all appreciate that okay so do we I think we've kind of gotten I think we're talking about the whole book all at once yeah yeah I would prefer I would prefer we get back on track so let me just ask and I've seen a couple hands come up but you are coming back to wildlife management right yes so if there are no more well so let me just specific does anybody have any questions about pages 11 through 16 and and as soon as we get to wildlife management I've got representative Prouty I've got representative Christensen I've got representative work and whoever else and I just want to make one last comment whoever told you they didn't shoot a deer over the weekend because they didn't want to check it in that sounds like somebody who just didn't see a deer that weekend sounds like a pretty good excuse because where I come from to get a deer this year is a pretty good way to meet anybody all right proceed okay so at this time I'd ask deputy director Laura Connelly come up and talk about goal one good afternoon and thank you so I will cover goal one MDC takes care of nature which begins on page 17 with a core total of forty five point eight million for fiscal year 2026 this covers terrestrial and aquatic habitat on public land helping private landowners manage terrestrial and aquatic habitat on their lands by restoring maintaining healthy land water and forests the program description is included in your electronic program book and includes some of the measures we are tracking related to priority geographies water quality monitoring efforts as well as feral hog removal in addition within goal one this also includes fishingWildlife Management which begins on page 24 with a core total of 43.1 million for fiscal year 2026 to manage healthy and sustainable populations of fish and wildlife for the use and enjoyment of Missouri citizens, conduct fish and wildlife research, survey and monitoring activities, and utilizing a community policing approach to increase voluntary compliance with the Wildlife Code. Alright, let me interrupt you there because Representative Prouty had a question. I'm almost afraid, is this raccoon related? Yes. Okay, go right ahead Representative. And I was gonna ask for a point of information regarding, regarding, are we suggesting that we hurt the raccoons because they're eating quail eggs? Is that what we're doing? Oh, and then secondarily, all right, since at least 2019 I've checked in with the department to inquire as to why I can't own or raise a homegrown North St. Louis County raccoon. And I was taught I would have to find a reputable breeder. I don't know if people breed raccoons, like why can't I just get one from my backyard and have it? Like people can, no, for like... This may be a, I don't mean to interrupt you Representative, this may be an offline conversation, but I will say there, there are multiple people here who have offered to help pay for it just so she has to raise one. Like, is that, is it because it's cost prohibitive? Because I have a, if we could talk about eggs, I feel like... I'm not interrupting, I'm not shutting you down. I just, because I thought we were finished. I, I'm, I'm didn't open the Pandora's, the raccoon box. I just want to know who put in a place that I couldn't have one and who do I need to talk to to fix that? And why can't I have one? Like I can have a tiger in Missouri but I can't have a raccoon. So there are specific regulations that we have in place related to native wildlife species. I'd be absolutely happy to have that conversation with you in more detail about what those regulations entail and things like that. The one consideration about bringing any animals in from the wild would be potential human transmissible disease concerns and then with raccoons in particular we would be discussing the concerns associated with rabies. So... So like, is a vaccine for that? Because I get my dog vaccinated. And also by wild you just mean like outside? Because if someone, someone could get a cat from outside and nobody's gonna care. We can talk about it later. I just feel like we have like breed specific, you know, regulations and I thought we were against that in this body as a, as a majority Republican. I just feel like that's not liberty and that's not what a patriot would do. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Prouty, I thought you were kind of playing around like you were earlier. I apologize. I had no way intended to step on your inquiry up. I'm so sorry. I, yes ma'am, we're fully aware. There, there is a pool available to buy you one if you ever get clearance. That is for sure. All right, so Representative Christensen. Representative Prouty, we have a bunch in the Great Northwest. Just to inquire. Proceed. Okay, so first, I just want to say, glad to see TJ on your guys's team. He's great. Definitely am gonna miss talking to him about DNR stuff. So just want to put that out there. Okay, the first thing is, and I know Representative Sharp was kind of talking about it, and sorry if you already asked this, but how many confirmed cases do we have of chronic waste disease? Do we know that number at the top of our head? Yeah, I think we're at 165 for this year. Okay, and then how much money are we spending on figuring that out and dealing with chronic waste disease? I'd have to get back to you with exact figures on that. And do you know which part, is it out of, would it be out of this budget, the fish and wildlife management? It would, it would be out of, out of the item 1.2 budget, correct. And by chance, you know how long it'll take you to get that to me? Like, should be able, readily available? Yes. Okay, cool. Thank you so much. Yeah, in general terms, last year we spent approximately two million dollars. Two million, okay. And how many, how many were there cases last year? 180, I think, somewhere in that neighborhood. You can find all that information on our public website, but we're happy to share that with you as well. Perfect. It's just easier, I don't got to find it now. Thanks. So just, just to be clear, this is not about y'all, this, the director of, the director, the chair has asked that any requests of a financial nature, if we can get responses within 72 hours, because we've got a, we have no time, this year especially, so we would greatly appreciate that. Representative Warrick, you have an inquiry? I will pass on my inquiry, thank you. Okay, Representative Cowher-Lowe. So the CWD, and I'm a little bit torn on this, because I feel both ways on it, but I had a constituent call an email, and I think this is where maybe Representative Warrick was going, and so we're going to ask it. Had an email, said they had, they checked in at CWD, and then they come down, and then they're killing all the deer. He says, I, he says, you know, the story was, you know, he's, there's two kids and him, and he says they have 40 or 80 acres, and they've seen four deer all year long. He says they've just killed them all, and TJ reported back is, and I just want to make sure that I got this right, that if you, if somebody, if, if you have a CWD case, you try to pinpoint where that was at, and then within a mile radius, you try to kill all the deer in that area? Okay. So. How do you do that? Yes, so when we have a CWD positive, we work with the hunter that harvested that animal to get the exact location of that animal where they harvested it, and then we create a core area that's generally around two miles of that, of that positive. Within that core area, if we engage in targeted removal, so those would be after the deer season, where we work with landowners to either have MDC staff remove those animals, or work with the landowners to remove those animals. Generally speaking, we're looking to decrease the deer population by a couple of deer per square mile, and so generally we're looking at around the same number of deer within that area that would be removed during the hunting season in that localized area. So we're trying to lower the deer density by a small amount in that specific area, and then, and it is up to landowners whether or not they participate or, or let us work on their specific properties. It's part of my district, and it's not that far from my house, and I, it's hard for me to believe that anywhere in Missouri, in my opinion, that they're lacking deer. That's why, where I'm confused at on it, but I also have people in my hometown that they won't report their deer because they don't want you to know that has CWD because they don't feel like it's, they think if there's, and I guess I've never seen one either, and I've got a lot of deer on my place, but I've never seen one that's acting crazy or sick or whatever, but I know that's some of the problem too, so I know we fight that both ways, but thank you very much. Yes, absolutely. I would say to that point, Representative, we actually just this winter removed a clinically suspect animal from the country club in Hannibal exhibiting absolutely clinical symptoms, and so there certainly is some who do not believe the disease kills deer, but it in fact does, and Deputy Director Connolly's point, we're trying to just turn the population over a little quicker, trying to cut off transmission, to maintain low prevalence rates, and I think our data to date suggests we've been pretty successful in doing them. We do not absolutely have any desire to eliminate all the deer. As we were just discussing, they are extremely valuable natural resource and part of the natural heritage of this state, and so that two million dollar investment we feel is a huge step in terms of protecting this billion dollar economic resource, not only just socially and culturally how important it is. All right, I think we're ready to proceed. Okay, well I will be very brief then finishing this up, so the program description for Fish and Wildlife Management is included in your electronic program book and includes our measures including citizen use of MDC apps, cooperative agreements, resource law enforcement contacts, population objectives for various game and fish species, and the wildlife code, and at this time I'd like to, I'd like for Mr. Jeffries to come up and present on goal two, MDC connects people with nature. Good afternoon Mr. Chairman again, again Aaron Jeffries, Deputy Director. I'm in charge of goal two, which is MDC connects people with nature. We'll start with recreational management. On page 33, the Commission has a core total of 22.5 million to cover activities associated with providing close-to-home recreational opportunities for all Missourians, managing Missouri's conservation areas, and developing recreational access partnerships such as public shooting ranges and close-to-home fishing accesses. Work here is aimed at making nature accessible for all Missourians and raising awareness on the benefits of being in nature. The program description is included in your electronic program book and includes measures on the number of technical assistance contacts to communities and partners, the number of citizens engaged in conservation, number of landowners engaged in the Missouri recreational access program, and the dollars provided to counties through MDC's CART program, which is a partnership we have with about a hundred counties per year where we provide gravel to help maintain county roads leading those conservation areas. There's no questions, I will move on to education and communication. Go ahead sir, thank you. The department's education and communication activities also fall within goal two, which starts on page 38. For fiscal year 2026, this program has a core total of 23 million. The program description is included in your electronic program book and includes measures on the number of educational...programs offered by the department, number of schools using NBC's Discover Nature Schools program, which we're in 42% of Missouri school districts, which is pretty impressive, number of magazine subscriptions, and citizen interest and support in conservation. And by the way, we still do provide education packets for the school groups that come in to you all, just get with TJ, and we provide old copies of the Explorer magazine, which I like the Explorer more than the conservationist, but they're both good. So with that, Mr. Chairman, we'll move on to goal three. I see we have a question. We have a representative, we have an inquiry. Yes, inquiry and a compliment from Boone County. We love our Boone County Nature School. I'm jealous that Representative Martin, it's in his district, but I want to thank you for all your work with that. I'm curious of these other programs that you've talked about. I know you mentioned Discovery Nature School. Do you have other models in the state that are like that? Other models? Yeah, where it's actually the building where the classes come to the building. You know, the Boone County Nature School was a unique opportunity where we had a family that was willing to donate the property, the incredible partnership that we had with the City of Columbia, as well as with the school district, and we had several donors that were willing. Now, we have tried to do a similar approach in St. Louis, as well as Kansas City, and we just haven't made it there yet, but we'll keep on trying. And just so everyone understands, we have a unique partnership there in Boone County where we've constructed a Boone County Nature School. It's taken care of by the City of Columbia, the school district, but every fifth grader will have an opportunity to go there, spend an entire week, to spend time outdoors learning about nature. We all recognize the value of being outside and how that helps kids learn and avoid some of the troubles and challenges that we have nowadays, but that facility will be open to all Boone County schools and just a wonderful opportunity. If anyone's interested in a field trip, since it's just 20 miles up the road, we could be willing to take you up there one day. Right, and to your point, you did say Boone County. It's more than just Columbia. All of the Boone County schools get to come, which is great. You talked about earlier spending down money. That would be a great investment in other communities. If you can find some partnerships, we'd be happy to tell people about it from our end. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? I think we're ready to move on. Thank you. Yep, so at this time bring it back up Deputy Director Andrew Bond to talk about Goal 3. Again, Andrew Bond, Deputy Director of Business and Operations. So Goal 3, and the first appropriation is Conservation Business Services, begins on page 45 with the Conservation Business Services functions. Core total of $59.3 million. Funding provides support for agencies other goals through operational excellence, policy coordination, financial services, information technology, fleet, and heavy equipment as we talked about earlier, fuel, infrastructure, administration, and facility operations and maintenance. Program description is included in the electronic program book. It includes measures on the number of hunting and fishing, license holders, staff training efforts, heavy equipment usage hours, online permits, and construction budget costs. The next appropriation is Staff Development and Benefits. On page 52 there's a core total of $20.8 million of Staff Development and Benefits. This includes the recruitment, retention, benefits, performance management, performance management, and employee development. Program description is also included in the electronic program book and includes measures on the number of salaried positions filled every year, training courses for staff, retention rates, and medical premium trends for the Conservation Employees Benefit Plan and retention rates. That concludes my remarks. I'd be happy to take any questions. Anyone? Representative Sharp. This kind of gets a little into the business part of it, maybe, but your rental income from your properties, you know, where people farm parts of those properties, I don't know where that's at in here or whatnot, what your income, but the one thing I would say is that some discretion your local people should use that if you have a cooperator that you like, I mean people can say, well it ought to be put up for bids, it ought to go out where everybody can has a chance to farm it. Well in general, farming the way you all want it farmed, it kind of takes a special person to kind of do that, and you know, up in our area at the Deer Ridge Place and the Knox County one that somebody had it, lost the contract, and you all, then whoever had the high bid apparently failed to deliver, you know, and end up going back to the other, the previous tenant who I thought should have had some adjustment in his rent because he didn't get it back till, you know, later in the season, but I would say that your local people ought to have a little more discretion, but if they've got a cooperator that you all like, you might, you know, give them some kind of latitude to keep the bid or match the bid or whatever, so I'm just throwing that out there, because the way you all, like say, not everybody would do it and some of them have to do, like we've talked about a lot of species that have been almost extinct, well beavers on the wild, like at Deer Ridge, are just, they're pretty, pretty persistent. They'll plug it up every night, you know, if you let them, so, but anyway, I just wanted to throw that out while you're here. Thank you. Appreciate the input. Anyone else? If there are no other questions, that concludes our... Let me just say, Mr. Director, we got off track, and that's my fault. I apologize for making it more convoluted than it needed to be. I typically like to keep it pretty straightforward, and I'm sorry about that. That's my fault. To the committee, tomorrow morning, 815, we will be looking at the Office of the Judiciary, Office of Public Defenders, and General Assembly. The Chair encourages everybody to get a good night's sleep and be careful going home. We will call it adjourned for the day.