you have any questions. Black, Boggs, Brown, Chappell, Christensen, Crossley, Cupps, Douglas, Haussmann, Hine, Calderlow, Kimball, Lewis, Martin, Mayhew, Murray, Owen, Prouty, Briggs, Sharp, Steinhoff, Steinmeier, Taylor Dell, Taylor Tim, Vernetti, Voss, Warwick, Young, All right. Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and we'll begin today with the Office of the Attorney General. General Bailey, thanks for being with us. If you'd like to come forward at this time to present your fiscal year 2026 budget request, and we again thank you for being with us. If you have any, and just as a reminder for everyone today, we need for the record to everyone to introduce themselves and anyone that would testify today to provide a witness form, then there's blank forms on the table. So if you have any opening comments, you're welcome to make those, and at your discretion, we'll get started in the book this morning. Thank you. General Bailey, yes, make sure that green light's illuminated. My wife tells me I'm loud enough. I didn't know I needed the microphone. Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, thank you so much for the opportunity to be here. Excited to be presenting the budget for the Office of the Missouri Attorney General. To my left is our Deputy Chief of Staff, Rhonda Meyer, many of whom you know. We also have staff members Brandon Rather, Danny Ingeman, and Colby Stossberg, who represent our ledge team that are here with us today. So excited to go through the budget. Want to give a brief overview of kind of where we've been over the past two years and where we're going. When I took over two years ago, we started a detailed analysis of not only our operational needs, but how those needs had changed over time. And we noticed, we observed very quickly that staffing levels were critical to the success of the office and were one of the pinch points in achieving operational success. We also identified the symbiotic relationship between recruitment, retention, and mentorship. And so we began addressing those issues first. And in doing so, we also began collecting data and identifying other needs to create efficiencies within the office and help us better deliver for the people of the state of Missouri. On the recruitment front, our practicum with the University of Missouri Law School has been extremely successful in providing an opportunity for law students to get practical experience at our office. It is an opportunity for us to introduce them to state government and to the work that we do on behalf of the state and to vet those individuals. And it's a recruitment pipeline for us. And so through those efforts, we yearly recruit anywhere from 5 to 10, sometimes more than 12 individuals from that class to begin their careers at the Missouri Attorney General's office. That has been an incredible boon to our recruitment efforts. Simultaneously, we noticed that retention was an issue. So we had been previously hovering at about a 25% vacancy rate, which was consistent across most lines of state government, as this body will have identified. We have largely shored up that and reduced that down to about 8% to 10% vacancy over a two-year period, which we consider a win. As far as retention goes, we were hovering at about a 35% vacancy rate two years ago when I took over. My estimation is that in 2022, around 67 attorneys left the office. In 2023, my first year, around 44 attorneys left the office. And I believe that last year, around 20 attorneys left the office. So you can see the trend line improving from our retention efforts. And again, that's directly attributable to our ability to recruit. The more individuals we have, the more we can spread that caseload out over multiple lines of effort, and everyone delivers better results and does so in a more efficient manner. Simultaneously, mentorship has been an issue. And so we started a first-of-its-kind program in the nation that I truly believe could be a national innovative model, and it's called the Trial Masters Program, where we bring in senior counsel from across the state of Missouri who come in pro bono and help us with mentorship and trial advocacy skills that have directly resulted in success in the courtroom. I noticed when I took over, to put it in military terms, I had a lot of privates and a lot of lieutenants, but not a lot of sergeants. And so what the Trial Masters have done is been able to institute that monthly mentorship program. We have delivered seven complete defense verdicts in employment lawsuits against the state in a seven-month period, all but one of which I believe has either been in St. Louis or Kansas City. So we are showing up, we are fighting, we are winning, and that's attributable to our recruitment, retention, and mentorship. For the future, we look to expand on those efforts, and we look to add efficiency by integrating a new case management software that would be used across almost all lines of effort at the Missouri Attorney General's Office. Most law firms have case management software that helps them track case intake, case procedure, automates documents, responses, and calendaring. And that will create incredible efficiencies and allow us as managers to track performance at the individual level and at the section level, and will allow us to bring even more detailed analysis to this body going forward about the work we're doing and how we can create additional efficiencies. With that being said, we are here today to ask for a budget increase. We're asking for a $2.2 million GR increase in order to meet the operational needs of the office. And I want to be clear on that. That ask is not for raises. That ask is to fund FTE that are already on the books to meet the operational needs of the office. And those operational needs have increased over the past five years because of the change in the complexity and volume of litigation. And so we have that detailed in the budget book under the NDI tabs, and I, barring any opening questions, would start to go through those tabs now. Any inquiries of a general nature and openness before we get into the particular line items of the book? Representative Voss, you have something you may inquire. Proceed, please. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. And I had an opportunity to visit with some of your staff yesterday and ask some questions specifically around staffing. I don't know if you have it, but could you provide us a vacancy report that shows your total vacancies over time in a trend line, like you talked about, that shows that? Sounds like it's coming down. Absolutely. And then how many of the positions that you have have been vacant for more than six months and how many more than 12 months? Absolutely. That would be a helpful follow-up. Yeah. As we look through the appropriations inside of the state's accounting system, it looks like there's about $2 million of lapse. So I know you're not asking for any more FTE authority. You're asking for additional dollars. But it looks like there's a couple million dollars, almost $2 million in GR that has lapsed. And I was just curious if you could help us understand why you're asking for more money on PS when you've got money already that you've lapsed. We did a 10-year analysis, and it looks like there's been a history of lapse here. So I'm not picking on you. I'm just trying to understand, is really funding your barrier, or is there something else that's preventing you from continuing to close your vacancy gap, and why do you need this additional money? If you could just explain that to me. Yeah, no, absolutely. And it's a very apropos question. The point I would make is, number one, that staffing is very cyclical, especially in the legal profession and especially when you're talking about a government law firm of this size. And when I say that, what I mean is most government attorneys that are going to come populate our line positions are entry-level or recent grads. Well, you graduate from law school traditionally in May, but you don't get your bar results until August. And so there's a cyclical pattern of hiring for our entry-level positions. And so that is part of the reason that there's occasionally lapse. Our expectation is that based on our recruitment efforts with the practicum at Mizzou Law and other recruitment efforts, that over time we will fill those positions. And again, those are funded FTE. What I'm asking for today is to fund additional FTE that are on the books, but are not currently funded. And so we anticipate filling the seats that you've identified, and we would like to fill more as well. I guess that's the heart of my question is, as I look through the budget books, I think they are funded. You're not asking for more FTE, you're asking for more PS, but you're leaving two million bucks on the bottom line. So why do you say that they're not funded when I think there's sufficient room for you to use it? I honestly think the issue isn't money, it's something else preventing you from being able to hire attorneys. And I know that's not unique to your office. I know that there are other departments or groups within the state that are also having trouble recruiting attorneys. So could you talk a little bit more about that? Because again, I'm not trying to be argumentative. No, no, I get it. I think you have the money. I just don't think that's the real problem. What's the problem statement? Yeah, and again, I think the...lines and that information we can provide to you as follow-up will be instructive here and what I believe we would observe is that number one the our ability to recruit has improved but then number and so you'll see that the funded FTE be filled but then number two it's the retention piece that retaining more mentors helps keep younger attorneys on the job longer. And if you can break down that vacancy report I love your analogy around privates and no sergeants in there so if you can help me understand by pay code or where those those problems are because yeah it sounds like you can get them in the system but you can't keep them because there's nobody there to coach them yeah on how to continue to perform and to be excellent at what they do that's right and so I'm just really curious why money is the fix to that then I'm not making that connection yeah the other thing I would say is market competition has historically been a problem across all lines of state government so when you've got a department agency that has a general counsel's office with ten attorneys that that competes with the Attorney General's office what I'll tell you is that the relationship between the state agencies and the Attorney General's office we found new and innovative ways to improve that relationship to hopefully reduce their need for their in-house counsel and so rather than me losing attorneys to go work at an agency GC we can keep them in-house and provide that same legal support to the agency this is gonna sound really strange but I want to help you spend all the money you've already really do that maybe an odd thing for us to say but I really want to help you do that and I'm just worried that it's not really a money problem I just there may be other issues there I was gonna go off of staffing for just a second can you put some context around the caseload that you've experienced since you've been our Attorney General and do you see that that mix is shifting at all from we're reacting to being sued to to proacting that we're actually taking on suits to defend our freedoms and liberties is there been a mixed shift in any of that type of work since you become our Attorney General and the answer to is yes to all of the above we have increased the volume of offensive litigation in our consumer protection division which under the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act recovers funds for victims of fraudulent business practices in the first year I was in office we recovered north of thirty two million dollars based on our consumer protection work last year we recovered north of four hundred million dollars in settlements and judgments on behalf of working Missouri families across this state in a time of economic fluctuation and so really proud of the return on investment I can demonstrate to you in that form of offensive litigation under our consumer protection division in the civil defense side more state agencies equal more defensive lawsuits to defend what the state is doing and so when we adopt a constitutional amendment that it creates another cabinet level position although that was a subcomponent of DPS previously at the point that you become a cabinet position it you increase the size of government and this you're a bigger target for litigation against the state and that we defend I would also point out that the increase in public interest organization not-for-profits that are nonprofit organizations that do public advocacy work has increased the caseload so now you've got entities that for instance will sue the parole board over parole processes and so instead of having an individual lawsuit that is we're adjudicating an individual claim we have a class action on behalf of thousands of parolees brought by attorneys from out of state who were funded by this not-for-profit and the complexity of the litigation increases and thus the time and resources we have to dedicate to it on the civil defense side increases as well and it is undeniable that over the past four years we've lived in a world where federal regulatory overreach has infringed upon Missourians sovereignty and has necessitated offensive litigation against the federal government in order to restore the rule of law and I would point out that that's not just Andrew Bailey saying that the United States Supreme Court made that very point in its overturning of the Chevron decision. Again I applaud your work I think you're doing great for our state and for our country and I just want to help you get the resources that you need I'm just trying to to make sense of that additional two million dollar ask because we've we passed a low budget last year now we're back with a two billion dollar supplement yeah now we're asking for an even larger budget and contextually I'm very happy what's going on with Doge and the way that our president is attacking our spending as a country but that trickle-down of federal funding at some point I think is gonna have to change in order for us to rescue our country's financial situation and the states are gonna feel the effect of that and we're gonna be facing smaller budgets in the future at some point I just want to be very cognizant of continuing to ask for more when we don't spend what we have and then that becomes a new baseline for the core that we're building on year after year and so that's the basis of my questions again I applaud the work I want to support you I want you to spend the money that you've been appropriated but I'm not sure we should authorize additional monies when we got some left in the bank and may I just respond to that inquiry as well briefly first of all have the utmost respect for the role that this body plays as stewards of the public fisc and that's why we're keenly interested in data numbers and efficiencies and we'll be happy to provide a more detailed analysis the other two points I would like to make briefly criminal prosecution we still have counties in this state that have part-time prosecutors and this office plays a key role in providing support at the trial court level in criminal prosecutions not to supplant local control but to support local control and last year alone we were in 28 different counties across the state helping to prosecute the most violent offenders at the trial court level and happy to provide any member of this body information about cases we may have prosecuted in your jurisdiction and what you'll find is it's murderers rapists and child sex offenders the worst of the worst so having quality prosecutors that we can deploy in the fight against violent crime the counties like having that asset available because we do that at no charge to the county and we incur the cost of travel and again we're talking about a homicide is potentially more complex litigation than than other cases so but happy to provide more detailed analysis last question there are several funds that you're able to tap into for the operation of your office I think I know the answer but would like to hear it publicly I don't think that let me provide context so many times when there's a lawsuit the winning party has to pay legal fee or losing party has to pay legal fees right I don't think that we're recovering a lot of your office expenses because of the work that you do from settlements is that true which may be appropriate but is there any incoming money from the wins that you have to help offset the cost of your attorneys yes absolutely and we are asking for less than 1% of the money we either brought in or saved so the seven complete defense verdicts that money was would have been paid out of a legal expense fund that's north of 50 million dollars and that we did that in a 15 month period with seven cases how much more can I save if I can get to the staffing levels I need and get to the level of operational excellence that that mentorship and recruitment and retention can deliver additionally the that's one example you know we have also found an additional 1.2 million in tobacco money that was in an escrow account that we're in the process of returning to this body that would go into GR so we are constantly looking for ways to bring money back and and certainly feel like the nominal increase we're asking for more than pays for itself in the work that we do thank you for your leadership I appreciate it and I really appreciate your staff meeting with me yesterday and going over some of these questions that I had to help me be more informed today thank you look forward to providing follow-up information one and you probably consider this or your staff maybe has already thought of this but as it relates to the request for the information on the FTE count one thing I'm just thinking maybe be helpful is your you know with your vacancy in your FTE with the you know PFs PS that maybe you've elapsed in previous years that you might elapse in this fiscal year you know to kind of make a breakdown of total vacant FTE and and you know what the total PS dollars is and assumably some of that is attributable if you you know staffing increases are increased but if I understand what you're saying what has to be true is that that wouldn't get you to a hundred percent and so you know to kind of break down the what's potentially available at this moment in time and then obviously what you need which you believe and it's broken down a couple in the eyes here but two million dollars or so to get to a hundred percent FTE staffing you know if you were fully staffed which I think is what you're obviously aiming towards and in your office I think correct me if I'm wrong what has happened and I don't even know if this is under your leadership obviously you haven't been Attorney General for you know relatively speaking an inordinate amount of time other departments state agencies really at the you know request of you know my predecessor this committee if not the entire General Assembly was to hey if you're lapsing PS then you know why are you asking us for more FTE and more you know use that to to you know help retain your people and so some of that PS dollars was cannibalized over time and so you know there's FTE available but there's no dollars by which to support them so it's not necessarily unique phenomenon I believe that's what's happening but maybe just a breakdown would help clarify the the need or the phenomenon yeah mr. chairman you're precisely right in your analysis and we will be happy to provide that anecdotally what I can tell you is that historically that under several iterations of AG administration ago the AG reached a high watermark of more than 400 FTE which was not proportional to the operational needs of the office and over time that number has been reduced but based on previous administrations and previous direction from this body that there have been instances where FTE have not been funded since I've been in office we have brought unfunded FTE back to the General Assembly and asked for those to be cut intended to continue to write size to square the books but we will provide those trend lines in that analysis per the the request thank you I think we got a couple inquiries lined up here and it's good we're talking about stuff that's in the book so I'm sure it'll uh you know make that process go faster even though we're not flipping the pages representative Hine you have an inquiry and then we'll go to representative sharp you recognize representative Hine Thank You mr. chair good morning how are you morning so you know the one thing that's different and unique about our elected officials budgets it's the flex right so I'm assuming you're still working with a hundred percent flex correct okay so when I look at the unexpended funds I see 5.4 million in 22 7.5 million in 23 7.5 million in 24 why are we not usingseeing some of that lap since you have the capability to flex to reorganize your budget in a way to use those funds that's always that's the thing I think it's great I'm a proponent of flex like look here's your dollars use it use it effectively but it baffles me why we don't just take that money and shift it into other places are the funds that you're using like federal and other and the GR obviously we know we have funded but are the federal dollars and the other dollars true money like you have you could spend it well let me begin and then I'll turn over to Ms. Meyer for a more detailed analysis but some of our dedicated funds we have very limited appropriations authority out of and those funds can only be expended for certain lines of effort so for instance case in point the Missouri merchandising practices revolving fund can only be used for consumer protection work it's dedicated fund historically the interest has grown larger at a faster rate than our appropriations authority out of that fund additionally some of the money we collect on behalf of the state goes into that dedicated fund and so that's why two years ago I came to this body and asked for six funding of six additional FTE to do consumer protection work and I would point to the return on investment moving from 32 million in settlements and judgments the first year you funded six FTE out of that NPRF and we got it up to 400 million the second year we believe we can do more but I'll turn it over to Ms. Meyer for a more detailed answer to the question and I asked that question because sometimes we get we have departments who will say well we think we might get that in federal funding but we don't know we need that authority to spend so I'm trying to get a grasp of how much of that is in this unexpected deadline yes representative we could get a breakdown of that but most of it is in our in our other funds and as Attorney General Bailey said NPRF is a good analysis we have a line item for both PS and E&E we don't use all that E&E expenditure because we have to spend those dollars as is dictated in statute we also have federal dollars setting out in our budget that are appropriated and we don't always have all of the cash funds for those so they show lapse appropriation okay and that's what I want to get at so we have a true number of how much is actually being lapsed that can you get the information to us because I don't see the full list of other funds it just says various funds so it would help me understand if I knew okay this fund can only be utilized for this amount of money absolutely because I do agree with representative Voss and that I think there are some resources here we just need to reallocate effectively and obviously we want you to have the resources to do your job I mean it's it's an important position right and we want you to be funded but I'm trying to figure out how we can best use our resources because I think you're asking for 16 assistant attorney generals if I calculated correctly in the NDIs is that correct I would have to double-check that no I think it was late last night and I was trying to get it so I think absolutely we're adding 16 more FTEs you're on the books okay you need additional money to fund those FTEs okay all right I don't know maybe we can find some of that money in here I don't know but thank you and I will look forward to getting that list thank you thank you Mr. Chair just for the record could you introduce yourself on the microphone and representative Sharp you were recognized for an inquiry my name is Rhonda Meyer and the deputy chief of staff for the Attorney General's Office okay thank you Mr. Chairman good morning I'll put in a little plug that I'm sure your office has kind of beat a path to northeast Missouri at times because what you talked about and when you get in the book where this is covered if you'd point that out again that small counties have trouble getting prosecutors almost everything ends up when you only got 4,000 people in a county it ends up with a whole lot of conflict of interest a whole lot of wires get crossed and then you have certain courthouse disputes that kind of need to be settled and I'm sure we asked for your office for those people and I certainly appreciate it because finding prosecutors in some of those counties is difficult because there's not a great deal of pool of legal help and then when it gets messy and also prosecutions like say murders big drug trials or whatnot that your office supplies a great deal of expertise out especially in the rural area so certainly in the northeast corner appreciate the people you send up there and I'm sure it's an expense that 30 years ago 40 years ago or less didn't have so many so if you would point that out when we get to that point those people that you send to those places I'd appreciate and appreciate what you all do so thank you sir and I to that point you know we're really proud of the relationships we have with our colleagues in the local prosecutor's office and you know I hope that my colleague Mr. Daryl Moore the executive director of Office of Prosecution Services would corroborate this but that you know me having worked at a county prosecutor's office and seen some of the challenges that our counties especially in the rural jurisdictions face from a workload perspective and those challenges have only grown since I left the county office and joined the state so we stand ready to support them and we'll provide a more detailed analysis of that that tab representative Lewis you recognize for an inquiry thank you for welcome thank you for being here appreciate it appreciate your office as always my focus is on the anti-trafficking monies and I I looked through this a couple days ago digitally and then I look I don't see the 900,000 is it because it's housed in the truth that we allocated for anti-trafficking efforts or is it because it's is it housed in the treasurer's book so that $900,000 was a one-time appropriation only for FY 25 but shouldn't it still be in here and zeroed out if it's not it's it would be included in our core operating budget but it wouldn't show a specific line item okay yeah and you know I don't want that to be a one-on-one a one-time line item I want that to be a ongoing so you know I'll talk with the with the chair about this but you know those those efforts are not going to be a one-time effort that's going to be a ongoing effort that we need to make sure that we fund that so you know I don't know you know I was thinking I would see a nine hundred thousand with a perhaps a zero on the on the right side but I but I don't didn't see it at all so representative I would put first of all supportive of your efforts to improve the state's response to the crisis of modern slavery in the form of human trafficking and feel like we've done work over the past years but we've got a lot of room to grow and are very supportive of your efforts to increase attention and are certainly happy to take on the mantle of responsibility and lead on that issue we've recently appointed additional staff to lead the anti-human trafficking effort and are engaging with our part our stakeholder partners that are on a task force to determine best course of action to raise awareness look for training modules that fit the needs of local investigators and prosecutors and better support the state's efforts to combat that yeah I really I do applaud you and you know we've this has been a multi-year effort already for me and for your office and the office of the Attorney General even before you and that that coordination between DSS and their their effort with with their office you know with Rachel Davis that leads that there and with the Highway Patrol with their office and you know the interactions with the CAC's all of those things are going to be best served when we fully implement the Attorney General's statewide counsel and have a director in there that's paid and that has stability from year to year because we can't have you know rotation of people and that's really you know it's not a huge amount of money but it'll save lives save lives and transform our efforts in the state of Missouri so I will continue to pursue that and I'll be working with the chair to make sure that we get that money in there again and make sure that it's you know is a not one not one-time money thank you sir appreciate that thanks. Representative Crossley, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you Mr. Chair good morning thank you for being here I saw yesterday that you were suing Starbucks because I think it was quote more female and less white could you walk through that a little bit? Yeah that we were the lawsuit against Starbucks Corporation was filed because of violations alleged violations of the Missouri Human Rights Act so this body years ago enacted the MHRA and gave the Attorney General's office enforcement authority there under to prevent discrimination in the workplace and that's the basis of the lawsuit. Okay just a quick follow-up I don't need these numbers now because you probably don't have them but could we get a list of all of the private businesses that you are currently suing and then also could we please get a breakdown of your office's staff by gender and by a race just to make sure that we're practicing what we preach don't want it to be identified but would like it just by job title. Well let me let me point out happy to provide the information it's not a results-driven analysis for an MHRA violation it's a were there discriminatory hiring or employment practices analysis. It's just more exploring if it happened. Well we believe we have evidence that it happened we'll put that evidence on a court but we but we will happily provide the data. Thank you. Representative Prouty you have an inquiry you may proceed. Yes I thank you I'll be quick I don't want to belabor the point but obviously I'm profoundly interested in the Starbucks lawsuit and would love to just talk with you through that I'm happy to schedule a meeting with your office more importantly I just I'm curious if white served coffee tastes a little bit better because if it does I'm happy to have some but I would love to schedule some time with your office also miss the beard. Happy to come talk to you and I appreciate it. So I think we're probably ready to begin the book. Representative Fogle you have something okay you may inquire proceed please. Thank you so long I'm sure you anticipated questions about this today with the news breaking yesterday but I think a lot of us including myself have.concerns about the Starbucks lawsuit. Number one, you know, an encroachment into private business, which I know is a purview of state government. I know you're acting in an official capacity and you have every legal right to do so. You know, reading through, I haven't read the entire brief yet, but reading through the articles, not necessarily the headlines. I want Missouri to be linked to headlines, you know, stating that since 2020 Starbucks workforce has become more female and less white. I think there are a lot of us in this room that celebrate that fact. We want women in the workforce. We want individuals and groups who have historically been left out of the workforce to be full participants. We want all families to be able to make a living wage, take care of their kids, take care of their their their homes. So my question I guess is, and I know this is specifically related to employment practices, but ideologically we have places in state government and in state statute that delineate or that require quotas based on sex. So do you have concerns with those areas? And if you do, if you ideologically oppose anything that has a quota system, why aren't you also advocating for changes in state statute that don't cost our state any money that force or mandate that we have one man and one woman? Those places exist. So I guess my question is, why are we encroaching on private practices when state statutes doing the exact same thing? Yeah, and we'd love to have a more detailed conversation. At the end of the day, enforcement authority in the MHRA is limited to specific employment actions, and we would have to contextualize how these other statutes, I believe the court term is you would review them in pari materia with the MHRA and did one repeal or amend by implication the other, and that would require a detailed legal analysis that we're happy to provide. So, and I know you're probably limited on what you can say, I'm not an attorney so I don't really understand the legal system nearly as well as you in your office, but what what did someone whistleblow? Is that how this came to fruition? Did someone within the Starbucks organization tell you that they missed out on an opportunity because they were a white male and didn't meet the criteria laid out in some of your comments? Yeah, I believe that the statute in the MHRA says that if it appears to the Attorney General that any of these rights are being either violated or even that anyone is suppressing those rights that the Attorney General then under the statute has the authority to take legal action, and so. And can you walk us through why it appeared that way? Yeah, it's detailed in the pleadings and the complaint that I'll happily provide to you, and that'll probably be a better explanation than time would allow me to provide here. Okay, and you know just for the record, again I understand that headlines aren't necessarily indicative of or reflective of your intention, but I do think it's important for the record to state that it's not the opinion of the Attorney General, that it's a negative thing that the workforce has become more female and more participants who are not white are enjoying the privileges of working in the workforce. It is my opinion that everyone should have equal access to job opportunities and the decisions should be made in accordance with the statutes and in promotion of merit. And is it your belief that because the employees demographics at Starbucks has changed that that has created a negative repercussion for white males? I believe that Starbucks has violated the Missouri Human Rights Act by making discriminatory employment practices, committing discriminatory employment practices, and that forms the basis of the lawsuit. And what are the next steps of the lawsuit? Obviously it's new, so what timeline would you anticipate? It could take six, eight months. We would institute discovery. There would be motions that would go back and forth as they relate to whether the lawsuit's proper, whether venue's proper, whether what forms of discovery are proper. And what would the expected cost of this lawsuit be? I can provide a more detailed analysis of that and again so much of it depends on that so much of it depends on how the court is ruling on those those motions that we've discussed. Are there any other lawsuits against Starbucks in any other state or any other Attorney General's bearing this burden with you? I'm not aware of any but they may exist and I just don't know about them. Okay, thank you Mr. Chair. Okay, I'm not aware of this litigation sounds like it's relatively new and we've had a little bit of analysis here pretty good analysis actually and it occurs to me that you know perhaps next year we might know more that this you know pretty limited in the information that's available on this to this point so I don't know if anybody else has additional questions on that but I would ask that we perhaps reserve those for another time. Representative Steinhoff, do you have something though you'd like to to inquire about? Thank you Mr. Chair. Yes, I was going to ask later but since we're on the topic of lawsuits I wondered if you could give us some more information about the 504 plan. If I understand right Missouri has joined other states in challenging the federal regulations of students 504 plans. Is that accurate? Do you have a specific case number or case style that I could look up? I don't know and that's mainly why I asked you because you know we see the headlines like everyone else and I think as other reps have said sometimes it's hard to get past what the media is trying to grab your attention with and what's really there but a 504 plan as you may know is a protection in our schools for students with disabilities and the way the headlines have been reading is that if this lawsuit were successful then our Missouri children would no longer have those protections. Yeah, let me come meet with you and maybe we can drill down on a specific case just because it's difficult for me to respond to a headline about a policy position without a case number. Right, well it just says Missouri is participating with 17 other states in challenging the federal government. Thank you. Okay, yeah, I'm sure they're also be happy to follow up with you get more information about that specific item and provide clarification. Just one question real quick for me before we get in the book and you know we've been talking about the book in general of all good things in here. You talked about the practicum with Mizzou a couple of times mentioned that. I know that was I think something you instituted General Bailey and you've spoken of its success. I'm curious and I and maybe help me I I know you're I assume probably most maybe all your attorneys are located in Jefferson City. I know we have you know state presence in Kansas City, St. Louis. Obviously there's law schools there, a state school on the western side. I think there's you know just a couple of law schools you know on the east of the state in the St. Louis region. I'm curious if there's opportunities maybe there for a pipeline if you've explored that at all or if there's a future plans maybe expand beyond Mizzou with that sort of a partnership. Yeah absolutely and you're right we have offices in St. Louis, Kansas City, Springfield and Cape Girardeau and would love to partner with other law schools across the state. There are four law schools in the state of Missouri and we would love to partner with each and every one of them and provide their students with the opportunity to come work at the Attorney General's office get practical experience, get course credit and provide us an opportunity to expose them to the work that we do and provide opportunities for them. Yeah certainly seems like that'd be a good is and could be a good good pipeline you know for the office so appreciate the insight there and oh almost made it Representative Boggs you have something here before we get started in the book please proceed. Yes real quick as we have a bill going through the house on the no call or this call spoofing I appreciate what I see here about you know the protecting our customers that's that's a pretty big deal to a lot of people not because I've made it or not big it's because people are and it's and it's affecting everyone so thank you for that be love to work with you on how we can make that better or anything that we can do to make your to put teeth in to what you do because everyone's just frustrated with it and then and then real quick word of caution whenever you mentioned that the new the new IT system that's rolling out that's kind of for this committee has kind of been a bad word as far as over the last year we've dealt with it with another department so don't turn your old system off until it's up and running very good and that's what I should that's my word of caution to you so and with that Mr. Chairman I'll turn it back over. Thank you. Okay yeah appreciate that and I think we can begin beginning the book thank you. Certainly so first tab core operating budget on page two this funds everything except for our Medicaid fraud compliance unit and the safe kid initiative that we've been steadily working through moving to the second tab at page 13 this is an NDI for our governmental affairs and litigation division excuse me this is for our public safe public protection and criminal appeals division and we're asking for four prosecutors one investigator one secretary and then two appellate attorneys we last year had more than 473 cases on appeal we handle 100% of felony appeals so your local police catch the bad guys your local prosecutor locks them up and then we defend the state's work on appeal for the next 10 15 20 years and again the volume and complexity that litigation has increased over time we have argued more than 100 cases last year in the Court of Appeals and filed more than 412 briefs as of January 1st of this year we have 1367 open appellate cases and those are in state Court of Appeals state Supreme Court federal district court federal Court of Appeals all the way up the United States Supreme Court so requires time and effort to adjudicate those cases properly to make sure that the bad guys stay locked up generally I believe you did you have an inquiry on this okay you may proceed representative focus thank you this might not be the right place to ask but the jewel lawsuit I know we talked about that in past years but I haven't heard a ton about it in the last year Missouri was a party to that and we did receive payment from that settlement and that payment is sitting in which fund yeah let us take a look at that I apologize I don't have that it's okay that's okay and then do you know the amount and I know we're expecting another payment in December of 2025 do we know how much Missouri expects to get from that we we can certainly ascertain that and okay and it's my understanding that settlement unlike the tobacco settlement fund is more general and we can use it for any legal services or any legalactivities. Do you have a plan for what we are going to do? I know it seems like some states have used it for tobacco and smoking cessation. Do you know what the office plans to do with those funds and is that something that the General Assembly will help guide or? Yeah certainly the General Assembly is the holds the power of the purse and all these conversations are in consultation with this body and we'll be happy to provide a more detailed analysis. I'm sorry I don't have that particular data point on that particular case at my fingertips but admittedly you know the tobacco master settlement of the 1990s was much more cumbersome and detailed and lessons learned have led to new consumer protection cases in the opioid settlement and in Juul and others that have streamlined those processes and made it easier and more quick for the state to access those dollars and we will provide that information. Okay thank you. So that was on 13 generally I believe we missed the NDI on page 10 and if you just want to go back and hit that one before and then we can move to 16. Sorry and Mr. Chairman that that I was speaking of public protection I was speaking about. Oh I'm sorry I thought we were on 13. No we're on 10 I might have misstated the number but the information I apologize for the confusion. Great. This is public protection and this is what we've been on. Yes sir. So we're now ready to go. This is prosecutors appellate attorneys and those who are prosecutors do civil commitment as sexually violent predators. So again this is dealing with the worst of the worst of the violent offenders in the state of Missouri and with barring any further questions on public protection criminal appeals would move to tab 13 and this is governmental affairs. So asking for three litigation attorneys for excuse me three employment law attorneys for litigation attorneys three governmental affairs attorneys and one paralegal. Our governmental affairs division I'm gonna start at the bottom of that NDI and work my way up. We've got 1,300 cases over time normally pending at any given time. Right now we've got more than 1,500 cases from last year alone and our supervisors are currently carrying caseloads which then precludes them from spending more time and bandwidth on management and mentorship. So would like to be able to eliminate that that issue. Let me go to our litigation attorneys we have seen about a 10 to 15 percent increase in case numbers and cases are becoming more complex. Again this is dealing with the special interest groups that challenge entities like the parole board or our probation services and so just the complexity and time involved in those class-action lawsuits has increased over time increasing the operational needs of the office. We did provide a major win in our litigation division. We won the case Jones v. Dohler to protect the tort victims compensation fund and we saved the state more than 124 million dollars in that suit alone that's been during my time in office and as a direct result again of the staffing levels and mentorship we provided. So proud of that win on our litigation division it can demonstrate our return on investment for you there. Employment litigation if you'll recall two years ago we separated out our employment law attorneys that defend the state against employment actions from the rest of our litigation division so we could get specialized training expertise to those attorneys that's where we've delivered the seven complete defense verdicts saving the state more than 50 million dollars and that's not even including 12 additional cases that were dismissed by dispositive motion on the pleadings or summary judgment where we didn't even have to go to trial. So the the savings that I'm discussing in our employment section at 50 million underestimates the the value of the savings total value of the savings that this section has provided to the state of Missouri. Barring any questions on that NDI I would move to 16 and this is consumer protection and again we've talked about several of the cases in this section but 32 million dollars in 2023 more than 400 million in settlements and judgments last year alone 13.8 million dollars in restitution collected on behalf of victims of crime for the state of Missouri. I always like to point out that in Missouri victims of crime have constitutional rights we scrupulously honor those rights and seek to return compensation to them as well. We would like to be able to file more of these suits and do more consumer protection to representative Boggs point the nature of consumer protection has changed in the previous decades whereas consumer protection used to be very localized about one single entity who was selling lemon used cars or a bad actor in the you know the asphalting company that would take payment and then not complete services. What we see now are multi-jurisdictional off the multi-state scams perpetrated through electronic means that require more time for investigation and prosecution against the wrongdoers. We've had good partnerships with other states that have resulted in large judgments against some of those individuals but additional resources are needed because of the evolving complexity of the problem set. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry on this you may proceed. Yes, thank you Mr. Chair. I got a hundred phone calls on Friday with local prefix that were telemarketers and I and that's not even an exaggeration there was a it was at least a hundred I just started ignoring every phone call. Is there anything the Attorney General's office can do to address that problem? Yes sir, absolutely. One of the services we provide are happy to provide you specifically or any of your constituents with the ability to sign up for the Missouri no call list. The Attorney General's office has enforcement authority and one of the services we provide is if you sign up at the state level we will gratuitously sign you up at the federal level as well to provide the maximum coverage and the point I want to make as to that specific issue is a lot of the calls are now originating outside the United States of America and they can disguise the phone numbers and so when I say the complexity of the problem set has evolved that is precisely the point I'm trying to make. Can you because you're right I'm on every single no-call list that is available in on the planet but I still get them and so folks in your office have told me before nothing we can do it's coming from a foreign country. Can the Attorney General's office use their their considerable weight with the federal government to somehow address this issue because we can't be the only state suffering with this. Certainly yeah and I think you're right I think more attention needs to be paid to this and we need assistance from our federal counterparts. The other thing I would say is that well absolutely and the short answer is yes. I think it's time we have an honest conversation too about our state statute and we'd be happy to come talk to you about that. I realize we're late in this session but you know I believe. Oh no we're not. We can still file a bill and I guarantee you it gets fast-tracked. You should make whatever suggestion you want and we'll get it done. Well we'll come talk to you and somebody double-check me I don't know that our no-call list statute has been updated since 2015 and obviously the technology involved with cell phones has evolved dramatically over the past decade so we'd love to have a further conversation with you about that. Yes thank you because it has turned the cell phone into a useless device. Again and even whenever I'm calling someone right they don't answer the phone so I have to send a text message and call in order to be able to make contact with people. This is this is ridiculous. What you might suggest to the president is maybe we need to throw some tariffs on some more people. Thank you. Thank You Mr. Chair. Representative Mayhew I think there might be deeper issues at play for people not answering your calls but we'll leave that there for now. Representative Chappell you have a point where you may proceed. You beat me to it Mr. Chair. I I don't want to take the committee's time. I would very much like to speak to you about senior citizens being bombarded especially and but offline please I'd like to have that conversation if that's in conjunction with Representative Mayhew that's fine but please if you could find some time for me I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you. Absolutely we would love to do that. I would also point out that this NDI is not GR. That the request specifically here for consumer protection is we're asking for increased appropriations authority out of a dedicated fund the Missouri Merchandising Practices Fund pursuant to a previous conversation. Representative Fogle you have an inquiry you may proceed. I do it is I'm not sure where it fits in the budget but I think it probably fits somewhere that we've already passed. Is that okay if I ask it? Proceed. Okay so it's my understanding that there was an OA lawsuit and judgment from 2012 that we have not been paying on that with the 9% interest is going to ultimately end up costing us about 44 million dollars. Why haven't we been paying that for the last 12 years and where is that 44 million dollars in my understanding complete general revenue where is that going to be in your budget and where are we going to find those dollars? Yeah that's a great question and I would love to come see about a specific case let me speak in broad terms you know typically if a fact pattern or a breach of contract say occurs in 2012 that might not be adjudicated for four five six seven or more years and so when that the fact pattern originates and when that claim is adjudicated there could be a vast expanse of time. Additionally so have we has it not been clear has it not been the directive that we should have been paying for 12 years on that? Did that recently come to light? My office provides legal services to client agencies pursuant to the statutes enacted by this body and there are really kind of two buckets of defensive work we do there's coverage provided by the legal expense fund which is essentially the insurance policy that's written into statute by the General Assembly and then there are non LEF cases and so when you have an LEF claim there's a fund in which those judgments are paid out and again it's not the Attorney General's liability it's the client entity that we represent in courts liability for breach of contract claims those are not covered by the LEF by statute and thus it's left to the client agency to come to this body and ask for a line item to pay off. And who in this situation is a client agency? In this specific case? I would need to come talk to you about that I don't have the I don't know which case number we're talking about but it could be any of the 17 constitutionally mandated state agencies it could be any of the boards and commissions when when those entities receive judgments there is not a dedicated fund to pay those and they have to come to this body and ask for appropriations. Okay so that 40 is am I correct in that number that we're gonna owe about 44 million dollars of general revenue for not paying?Again, I apologize, Representative. I just don't know. I just need to come meet with you and get some more facts so I can ascertain which case number we're talking about and would love to have a more detailed conversation. Are there multiple case numbers that could fit that description? I don't know because we have thousands of cases and so it's difficult for me to point to one and I'm certain if you have additional facts it will help me make that determination. Yeah, my understanding is an OA judgment from 2012 that we recently found out we're going to have to pay 9% interest totaling $44 million. I just don't know where that's going to come out of a budget and is it not going to be your budget? It sounds like it might be. Well, to the extent it's an LEF case, we weren't the target of the litigation. To the extent it's a non-LEF case, we weren't the entity that breached the contract or were determined to have breached the contract. So it would seem appropriate for those judgments to be paid by the offending client entity. And when we're talking about interest, that interest calculation is based on statute and in non-LEF cases, the client retains discretion as to whether or not to file an appeal. And so oftentimes, interest accrues during the pendency of an appeal and the client entity is hopeful that the Court of Appeals will reverse the judgment and remand the case for further proceedings and that we would be able to correct whatever mistake. And so a lot in that conversation, but would... Okay, yep, happy to have you come find me. Representative Kimmel, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good morning. I know you mentioned a lot of partnerships with the consumer protections and your partnerships with the federal level. Seems that a lot of those protections at the federal level are being dismantled, that agency. I know that's not directly the federal attorney general, but are you concerned about those protections being dismantled and your ability to partner and protect Missourians? I am not because of the limited authority of the federal government under the enumerated powers doctrine in the Constitution and the more broad authority granted to the state of Missouri under the 10th Amendment and believe that this body has enacted sufficient statutes or is considering additional statutes to change the evolving landscape to meet the needs of the people and protect the people of the state of Missouri. Thank you. Representative Steinmeier, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair, Mr. Attorney General. It's always good to see you. Just looking at some of the settlement judgments, when you settle a case and there's a payout back to the state, but it looks like it goes into general revenue or goes into departmental funds, do those always show up in the budget in terms of revenues or how, I mean, do the other departments, are they, when they get a settlement and you're transferring money into their, are they sharing any cost for you to go represent them in any way? Mostly the answer to that question is no. There are some limited instances in which we have memorandums of understanding with client agencies for limited scope litigation, but most of the time, 65% of the cases in the civil division of my office are employment law actions against state agencies. And those are, that's historical litigation. That's not, those are cases that may have, the fact pattern occurred two or three administrations ago that the claims haven't been adjudicated until one administration ago and we're on appeal. And so those are, that's kind of historical legacy litigation. But most of the, in those instances, we are not compensated for our legal representation of the client agency. We are mandated to, and happy to represent them pursuant to the dictates of the legal expense fund enumerated in statute. Okay. I think I understand all of that. So I'll have to go check my law degree on the wall and make sure I'm clear on it. But I just wanted to make sure that if there, if we are, if you are representing departments and their settlements and it's paid back to them, that somewhere it's reflected in the budget that way. So certain settlements, for instance, if we have a consumer case that's settled, if those dollars come back to the state, they generally go back into the merchandising practices revolving fund. Okay. Okay. But that is not representation of a client agency. No. Okay. We can do another one offline on something like that. Thank you though, I appreciate it. Okay. Please continue. Yes, sir. I believe I wrapped up the consumer tab. So moving on. I wrapped up the consumer tab. So moving on to 19, labor division. So 10 years ago, the general assembly amended the statute as it related to work comp. Partial permanent disability as a claim is now gone and full permanent disability based on, I believe it's seven enumerated statutory factors is now the legal standard. And so over the course of the 10 years since that statutory amendment, those cases have become more complex. In other words, a single determination as to partial disability is easier to adjudicate, takes less time and complexity to adjudicate than the weighing of seven statutorily enumerated factors. Additionally, so many of the cases, because the statute changed are now cases of first impression at the Court of Appeals in Missouri Supreme Court. In other words, when you change the statute that drastically and which is sound policy position determined by this body, but that change in statute creates, you kind of wash away the sediment of case law that is built up interpreting the previous statute. And thus the statutory change 10 years ago has increased the complexity of the litigation and the number of appeals that our office is handling. We're asking for one additional assistant attorney general. Barring any questions, moving to page 22. This is our solicitor general team. So this is the top appellate attorneys in the state of Missouri. I would point to the work we've done defending Missouri agriculture against the EPA's promulgation of a waters of the United States rule that would have essentially prohibited use of Missouri farmland by Missouri farmers. We filed suit within 45 days of taking office to put a stop to that. That's the kind of work that the solicitor team does. We wanna be more involved in Missouri river issues that I think are critical to agriculture in the state of Missouri and form coalitions with other state solicitors offices at the lower basin to protect our right to water in the Missouri river in the lower basin. This is the section that typically defends legislation enacted by the General Assembly all the way up to the Missouri Supreme Court and the United States Supreme Court as well. Barring questions, going to page 25. This is the governor's retention schedule and I believe all subsequent tabs are related to the governor's retention schedule. We are supportive of that retention schedule and believe it'll assist. It'll put a supercharger on our efforts to recruit and retain talent. Thank you. Going to page 20, Medicaid fraud. Excuse me, is that 29? Didn't wear my glasses. Page 29, the proud of the work that our Medicaid fraud unit has done. We were nationally recognized as one of the top states in this litigation space within the last year. So really proud of the efforts there. This is a 90-10 federal match. Excuse me, 75-25. This is a 75-25 federal match. So this is largely funded by the federal government. But again, we want to protect Missouri's most vulnerable who are most in need of access to healthcare. And this is the way in which we do that, providing, making sure they have access and then protecting state resources from fraudulent scams. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I'm looking at the, on page 30, I'm looking at the lapse. And let me start off by saying that I'm grateful that you're being cautious with the general revenue dollars as well. So many of the departments we see, they have lapse, but every general revenue dollar is out the window right off the bat. So thankful for that. Nevertheless, it looks like we're lapsing anywhere from 50% to 2 3rds of this fund every fiscal year. Are we under-utilizing it? I understand what you're saying, being proactive. I think we all certainly want to make sure that Medicare fraud is taken care of. Frankly, the Supreme Court's determination contrary to the law and the Constitution that made Medicare expansion allowable has put us in a deeper fiscal hole than what many people fully appreciate. So the idea of Medicare fraud is something that we need to be cautious of. But when I see lapse of this magnitude every year, I gotta question, where are we at? Representative, we have some, both GR and federal, that lapses. We're very cautious about our 75, 25% match on this. And a lot of that lapse is in our expense and equipment lines. So we try to maximize our personal services dollars, but based on whatever investigations we have, we may or may not use all of the expense and equipment line. To put a finer point on it, if we're involved in litigation where we file a criminal case and the defendant pleads guilty at the first appearance, we don't need $10,000 for court transcriptions and depositions and completing the record so we can file the appeal. And so that flex is infinitely more important in this instance because the pace of the litigation is dictated by the defendant. All right, thank you. Representative Hine, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Chair. In that line, it looks like we had some PS that is vacant. In FY 24, our actual was 18 and it looks like we're on pace to have a 20-ish, 21 maybe for FY 25. You've asked for 29. Are any of those FTE kind of just floating around?somewhere else, or do you need those for this particular caseload item? What's happening here with this, the PS and the FTE? You're asking about FTE? In the Medicaid front, yes. We have 29 FTE budgeted, both with the state and the federal government. We have had some difficulty in filling lawyer positions there, so we continue to push forward to try to get those filled. So they're not floating, and they are specific to this work only. So what's the caseload? You gave us caseload in the other sections. What's the caseload in this particular section? You might have to follow up on that. And I apologize. We may have to follow up with you. Let me check my notes to see if I have those. You know what? I apologize. I don't have those notes at my fingertips, but we will get them for you. Okay. And I may say that because this does impact our vulnerable populations. So if we have cases that aren't being addressed because we're short PS, then I'm hopeful that we can take care of that. That's, I mean, in my mind, important work. So, and I'm sorry, I don't have the numbers that I think you're asking for, but I think I have some numbers that might add some texture. Absolutely. Take them. So 2024 received the Medicaid Fraud Unit of the Year Award from the Inspector General of the federal government, $15.2 million in restitution for the state, 21 civil settlements, 88 criminal indictments. We've, we added four investigators that have increased the potential for another 120 cases per year. So that's, that gives you some texture. We need to fill that out more and bring you additional data points, but that, um, 120 cases per year per person for those four investigators total for those four. Okay. Okay. All right. I think that's it. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You may continue. Thank you, sir. I believe I'm on page 36. That's the NDI from a Fuqua. And this is where you're asking for, uh, an additional investigator. I think we've talked through that one extensively moving to tab 39. This is the governor's retention schedule moving to tab 42. This is our, uh, safe kit unit. We, through our work to, uh, process the backlog of safe kits in the state of Missouri, that has led to 1,248 CODIS uploads resulting in 573 CODIS hits, which has resulted in four felony convictions of sex offenders, just on that, that work alone. So really proud of the work we've done to clear the backlog of the state's safe kits and continue to protect, uh, victims of sexual assault. Representative Fogle, you have an inquiry on this. You may proceed. You may be answered it already in your comments, but I know in October we still had about 1400 kids that were untested, at least as reported by the Springfield Newsleader. Um, my local paper back home is, have we truly cleared the backlog and there are zero outstanding rape kids in the state of Missouri that need to be tested either setting, sitting in a, you know, local police department or setting in the crime lab, we're truly down to zero. So it's a fluctuating number because there's inputs and so I need to get you a precise number as of today and we'll do that for you today. Okay. That has been something that has been a pet peeve of mine and these comments aren't specific to your office. I know that there are a lot of departments that work on this, but a pet peeve of mine since my first year up here that we continue to be okay with so many women and men sitting and waiting to know the results of their rape kit tests. And I appreciate that your office jumped in. I appreciate that the federal government provided some additional funding to get through the backlog, but any information you can provide would be helpful. Yes, ma'am. We share your concerns about protecting. Yeah. Thank you. Representative Steinhoff, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you. I wonder if you would know this information. Um, I know the highway patrol website posts the status of where we are with that. Is that what this money is? Is it the highway patrol testing of rape kits or is that a different? I would just need to look at their website and that data point, but we will get an answer to that. Okay. And while you're looking into it, I know, I know there's other places like Kansas City and ST Louis might do there. So just having an idea statewide, are there different pots of money for this? Is there one authority over all of them? Any of that information? Appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chair, too. Moving on to tab 40, I believe it's 48. Yeah, I'm sorry. 40. That's a governor's retention schedule going to 51. This is a violent crime task force and capital unit. This is a group of prosecutors that again, handle some of the top tier criminal cases for our office in the state of Missouri going to tab 57 governor's retention schedule. Representative Owen, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Yes. When the prosecutor in ST Louis City came on board, I know there was a lot of talk of county prosecutors in that area and maybe your office supporting him as he got his staff back up. This kind of reminded me when we're going on this. Can you give us an update? Are we still supporting Gabe Gore and his efforts there in ST Louis City? Yes, sir. Specifically after the previous circuit attorney resigned, we circuit attorney Gore asked us to maintain responsibility for 100, 101 cases that we happily did. And we offer support to him or any other office. So there may have been additional inputs to my office from his that I'm just not aware of, but we did keep a legacy caseload from that office in an attempt to provide a safety valve. So your sense is that he's, he's getting staffed up and, and able to handle the caseload now? Absolutely. Okay. Thank you. Representative Douglas, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good morning. Um, I would like, and you can get this to me later, um, um, to see how effective, um, your efforts have been with your 10 FTEs, uh, in the Kansas city area, as our numbers continue to grow with violent crime and homicides. Um, want to be able to, um, to tell my constituents a little bit more as to how the state is coming through on the public safety piece, uh, and where their tax dollars are going. Yes, ma'am. And, and happy to do that. Excited to have a new Jackson County prosecutor, certainly stand ready and willing to work with them to take the most violent offenders off the street. You know, traditionally we don't see a lot of requests from the larger jurisdictions for our assistance. Most, most traditionally the requests come from the smaller jurisdictions. And I think if I'm, uh, you know, looking at a proportional, a proportion, it's really those part-time prosecutors that traditionally need the most help, but that does not preclude us assisting, uh, the, the larger jurisdictions. And we certainly stand ready to do that. We are committed to criminal justice and to our partnerships with the stakeholders at the local level. Okay. Excellent. Thank you. Representative Prada, you have an inquiry on this. You may proceed. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Uh, kind of on the same vein, is that usually how you all come? I know with St. Louis, there was a huge, huge issue. And so your efforts in helping clear some of that backlog and make sure that they're not just releasing some of the more violent offenders back on the streets because they have a right to a speedy trial is something as a person from St. Louis County, we certainly appreciate. Um, but is that usually how you come into service with assistance that you get the request? Or is there ever a time where it's just, it gets to a level where someone, you know, you have to intercede because it's gotten. So yes, ma'am. So kind of three answers to that question. Um, by statute, there are two ways in which the Missouri attorney general's office prosecutes crimes at the trial court level. Number one, where the local court finds there to be a conflict of interest with the local prosecutor and appoints our office. And we, we go in and help take over the prosecution to that point. The second method by statute is gubernatorial appointment to assist the local prosecutor and the local prosecutor still retains a supervisor control. We're just providing the technical expertise and what that assistance looks like varies based on the, the prosecutor in the office and the resources and the relationship. Um, those are the two ways. Now, in the instance of the, there is the quo were onto, which is built into statute, which allows the state to remove a local official. And in that instance, you know, we would, the governor could theoretically appoint us to a certain caseload predetermined caseload. But again, that's a somewhat speculative. And I think this, this issue in St. Louis was somewhat unique because of the backlog and, uh, but stand ready to assist it. We, we want the people in St. Louis to feel just as safe as the people in our rural jurisdictions. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Thank you for that. You may continue. I believe I'm on page 60. So this is a pastor account for when the attorney general's office received settlements and judgments. Uh, right now we're, this is where, for instance, that a 1.2 million that we found in a tobacco escrow account that's been transferred into this count. We're transferring this back to GR and should be reflected on the book shortly. Moving on to 65. This is our court cost transfer fund. This is where we pay fees for filings. Representative Steinmeier, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just, just to follow up on that. Is there a way that we can look at, or you get us some information on those settlement payouts and where they came from? And just, just to give us a little background on this 4 million. Yeah, absolutely. And I, and I'm sorry that I was not more clear in your initial inquiry. You know, I think the best way to look at that is to parse out offenses versus defensive litigation. And then is it offensive litigation in the form of a consumer protection action? Is it offensive litigation from our Medicaid fraud compliance unit? So if we, we parse out offense and defense by section, that'll probably clear the issue up. Yeah. Cause I'm, I'm just looking on, on the reports month by month and it's, there'slot so that's so I didn't know if we could get to a bottom line and just you know the when we get a settlement that's going back to the state if we could see where that came from where it's going to I know it goes through general revenue but what department was represented and it just gives us a little more detail a little more depth and in finding out where the money is coming from and and how it's being paid out to us but where it also goes so that if anybody here has ideas for future bills we could look at that too so if you can get that to me it's sir yeah sir thank you thank you thank you mr. chair please continue moving on I'm on tab 70 this is a antitrust fund that was established years ago for antitrust litigation moving on to oh I'm sorry I think that's it any last questions for the Missouri Attorney General's office seen none thank you for being with us today we appreciate you very much have any closing comments you're welcome to make those but this will conclude your budget presentation grateful to the chairman and to the committee for its time and consideration look forward to answering our questions on follow-up and thanks again okay we'll now go to the Office of Prosecution Services good morning mr. chairman my name is Daryl Moore I'm the executive director for the Missouri Office of Prosecution Services before I go through our budget which won't take too much I want to respond to representative Owen we also assisted in st. Louis City have developed a great relationship with Gabe Gore in fact at the request of the governor governor Parson I sent for my staff over there who had worked in that office to help rebuild it and in fact continued to pay out of my own funds to keep some of those people over there but I had people that had expertise in the case management system to go assist their grant program was a godforsaken mess and I fortunately had a person that had worked in that office that controls our grants and went over and fixed it mr. Gore and I were just in Washington to lobby with our congressional delegation so I'm pleased to say you know the first this is my seventh year in this job and my last year in this job the first five years were a nightmare given the situation in the city of st. Louis but it has greatly improved and I appreciate what governor Parson did in appointing Gore and Gabe's just a tremendous prosecutor and I will tell you we also have great prosecutor now in st. Louis County and in Jackson County so hopefully prosecutors won't be on your radar so much right now we are in better shape in terms of our budget in terms of our core budget which is page two it is the same actually it's a little less I say less it's about forty eight thousand dollars less than it was for this fiscal year but the only reason it's forty eight thousand dollars less is that we had to transfer money you know our rent that we pay for office space is actually in house bill 13 under facilities management so they actually plug in our budget line item for that and so that's we were managed to get more office space lease so that we can hold more trainings and conferences in the office instead of renting hotels and places and so forty eight thousand dollars was transferred so that's why the actual core budget is less by forty eight thousand seven hundred and forty seven dollars than it was last year in terms of there are only two in the eyes that we had beginning on page 13 as I think representative Hine oh wait the first one is simply requesting additional E&E to cover travel expense for the two prosecutors paid out of general revenue one deals with domestic violence sexual offenses and the other deals with child sex cases we pride we provide extensive training across the whole state of Missouri we also provide trial assistance we've had an agreement with the Attorney General's office since they have been short-staffed in public safety or public protection in fact there's an agreement when I was deputy attorney general for the criminal division under Attorney General Hawley we reached an agreement with mops that mops would take on some responsibilities taking experienced prosecutors in our office and experienced prosecutors that were available across the state to help go fill in and some of the smaller counties on trying some of the child sex cases the rape cases I've tried a child sex case in Hickory County since I've been in this job but anyway we've spread that responsibility in the training the deal that this is the first year I've ever asked for any increase in any E&E for any of the line items in the in the office and we need about a $7,000 increase to cover the travel expense and training expense that we are now incurring and like I say this is the first increase we've asked for in that line since I've been in this position in my seventh year the second NDI yes I skipped over it yes I need to go back to page 10 as I think representative Hine will recall well representative cups isn't here in 2023 a bipartisan group in this body and I don't mean the Budget Committee I mean the House and the Senate in general wanted to establish a statewide conviction review unit only the large counties st. Louis City st. Louis County Jackson County have a conviction review unit where cases are that an innocent person has been wrongfully convicted and so this body wanted to establish a statewide conviction review unit in my office I agreed to that now in 2023 the way that evolved is it at budget time I was approached by Cody's budget chair Cody Smith and other members of the committee offering to give me I shouldn't say give that sounds bad offering to appropriate sums to me to create a conviction review unit I declined for two reasons which hopefully my representative mr. Chapel would appreciate reason number one being I had no statutory authority to be creating a conviction review unit and number two I had no idea since I hadn't really looked at it about what it might cost to actually establish a unit so I declined the funds well last year in 2024 this is the General Assembly the governor signed the bill creating a conviction review unit in my office but they did not you all did not appropriate the funds to actually establish it so this year I've come back asking for the funds to actually implement the program I see the governor did not recommend it but I'll just I'll just tell you the only way we can establish the program as I've said the last two years in my budget request is for general revenue money to fund the positions and I would still respectfully say that if you all believe if this body still believes that we need to have a conviction review unit we need the funds and I would tell you that I understand GR is tight and if you look at my budget you realize that most of my money does not come from general revenue it comes from federal grants and it comes from court surcharge which is declining in fact when this office was established in the 1980s the two primary sources of funding were bad check fees which I will tell you at one point 15 years ago would raise over half a million dollars guess how much it raised last year 12,000 I mean we all know that nobody writes batch writes checks let alone bad checks anymore so that funding's gone in the toilet if I can say that here and the surcharge when it was established in 1980 was a dollar on any criminal case where there was a conviction and and traffic case but 50% of that dollar went to the local prosecutor for training and the other half came to my office when I took this job I did not do my due diligence so it was my fault when I came into office and looked at the budget before I came over here in 2019 the surcharge was only raising a hundred and twenty two thousand dollars that was not enough to be paying the salary the executive director the deputy executive director or office expense but with the cooperation of Governor Parson and this body we managed with the surcharge increase to five dollars in 2019 half going to the local prosecutor for training and half coming to me that has been generating about five hundred twenty-five thousand dollars but it's starting to decline again and so as I keep telling the board at some point they need to figure out with you all how to sustain the operation of the office since the bad check fee is not sustainable and the surcharge is continuing to decline anyway the long story the only way that I can implement the conviction review unit that this body wanted is if I receive some money to do it and if I know GR is tight even if you all could consider giving me one attorney and the investigator we could at least start the project in July of this year and see if there is a actual original more demand for a second attorney I bet I based my estimate upon the cases that are currently be handled in Jackson County and st. Lucie st. Louis County and conviction review unit so that's my budget simple I think and and to answer representative Hines question if you look at my budget where it shows lapse money that's not really except for GR there have been years where we did not expend the full GR appropriation because of change in personnel or we just we didn't pay for a program that year but the lapse in the GR has been very little if you see lapse in the other fund and the federal funds it's because we either didn't receive the federal grant monies or in the case of the other fund the other fund is the surcharge and the bad check fee even though we had appropriation authority if the money didn't come in we didn't have the money so that's not a true lapse that million-plus who sees not a real lapse of money now the reason that we've asked you to keep that appropriation authority that high is in the event because by statute people can give us money if the Koch brothers wanted to give us money they could they haven't done that if anybody have any connect and I'm just saying them it could be anybody and you know last year you all amended the public defender budget where they're now equivalent to us they can accept funds other than state general revenue and federal grants they can now also accept monies from other entities so we've left that appropriation authority thereHey, somebody wants to give us money. And in fact, I will say we had one person, Dan Knight, the prosecutor in Boone County, as you know, two, three years ago committed suicide. His father, who also unfortunately recently committed suicide, gave to MOPS funding to sponsor a well-being seminar every, at least once a year during one of our conferences for our prosecutors. So we have received that money. I mean, it's not a huge amount, but it came in and I did not have to seek appropriation authority because we had it, plus two years ago, we were approached to be one of two grant, possible grant recipients to implement the digital evidence management system, which you all were graciously appropriated for us, which has been very helpful, especially with prosecutors and law enforcement, but is it going to be about a $1 million grant? But again, I had appropriation authority to accept it spread over three years and would not have to come back to you. So that's why I've asked you all and would leave the appropriation authority that height on the off chance that somehow, I mean, we're not outpaying the lot, we're not playing the lottery with any public funds. Don't get me wrong, but on the off chance that somebody might want to give us money or a grant would come along, we'd like to have that opportunity, so. I don't believe you covered the NDI on 15 for the pay plan. You want to give any description of that? That's the governor's pay plan. We certainly don't object to it. So, I mean, that's his deal, and as the attorney general said, we'd approach, I mean, at this point, I have very experienced staff, except for one or two more recent employees, and so the pay plan would help. And that's the governor's recommendation and we would support it. Representative Black, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Can you tell us a little bit more so that all of us understand better? An issue, explain to us, an issue was on the ballot with regard to possible funding that had become necessary as a result of a Supreme Court decision regarding funding of the judicial system. Can you explain that whole thing to us? Well, yes. A lawsuit was filed by two eager attorneys in Jackson County attacking the surcharges, and I know surcharges aren't popular, but it was attacking the surcharge. There's a surcharge that funds my office and the prosecutor trainings. There was a surcharge for the prosecutor retirement fund. I think there's a surcharge for the head injury fund. There's a surcharge that goes into the legal services fund. There are seven or eight surcharges that fund these different programs. So there was a lawsuit, and I might have been in here really needing you to give me, or asking you all to appropriate GR of 600,000 if the lawsuit had been successful against Moss, but fortunately in the Supreme Court, the surcharge funding my office was upheld at the current time. And the reason, to give a short history, is back in 2023, there'd been a lawsuit against the surcharge that funds the sheriff's retirement, and Judge Fisher, writing for the Supreme Court, said that the sheriffs were not part of the administration of justice under Article I, Section 14 of the Missouri Constitution. And so then these lawyers in Jackson County attacked the rest of the surcharges saying that they aren't part of the administration of justice. I had to give a deposition, and I think one reason that at least Moss prevailed in the Supreme Court is that you can't file a criminal case if you don't have a prosecutor filing it, right? And so we are necessary to the administration of justice, and my office trains and runs the case management system for those prosecutors. The separate issue is what happens to the prosecutor retirement fund. And that's still hanging in decision status over in Jackson County. And last year's constitutional amendment was an attempt to fix the sheriff's retirement fund and the prosecutor retirement fund. Because if the courts say that the surcharge for the prosecutor retirement fund is unconstitutional under Article I, Section 14, then there's gonna be about a $1.5 million shortfall each year in the prosecutor retirement fund. How that's gonna be fixed, now since that constitutional amendment, and the sad thing is there was misinformation. That constitutional amendment did not create any new funding. It just protected the current funding source that was being paid by defendants who actually use the system and who are actually convicted. And contrary to myth, prosecutors don't go running around filing cases just to generate money because we got too much to be doing. I mean, I was Green County prosecutor in the office for, as you know, 26 years. The last 12 was prosecutor. And so anyway, at some point, the prosecutor retirement system is going to need fixed if the court rules against it. And that's a long answer, John, I don't know. Representative Black, I don't know if that was too long. So at this point, the sheriff's retirement fund is in jeopardy. But the prosecutor's retirement fund is still not decided. Is that correct? It's not decided. The surcharge is being collected. It's being held in escrow. And we're just waiting to see what the judge and Jax, we believe the ruling will be upholding the surcharge, but then it will go to the Supreme Court and they will have the ultimate say. And as I understand that the governor asked you all to appropriate $2 million this year to sustain the sheriff's retirement, so. Yes, thank you for that explanation. I don't think that information was very well distributed last year. And I think a lot of people didn't know what that ballot issue was about. So at least I appreciate that explanation. I'd also like to thank you, Mr. Moore, for your many years of service, not only to Greene County, but to the state. I didn't know you were finally hanging it up. But as a member of all the ancients in the Missouri Law School class of 1982, I want to thank you. Thank you. Some of you have done better than I did, but hey. Can you give us a 60-second explanation as to the attorney general, which you heard that testimony, spoke about assistance upon request and the local prosecutors. It appears that your office would have something to do with local prosecutors and assistance, and you spoke something about that. And I think you tried a case in Hickory County recently, or at some point you mentioned. So what is it that you do that is different and separate and apart from what the Missouri attorney general does as it relates to local prosecutors and assistance? As I said earlier, when I was deputy attorney general for the criminal division under Josh Hawley, the office was not in a position to handle all these requests for assistance that go to the governor or to give. We didn't have enough staff, public safety attorneys to send out. So we reached an agreement with MOPS that we've continued under each attorney general, where we first, in many cases, except for the murder cases, where that's their specialty and they have the staff, in all the other cases, the second-degree murders, the child sex cases, rapes, first-degree assaults, the prosecutors first come to us and we either try to staff it ourselves if one of us is available, or we try to find a prosecutor that is available, an experienced prosecutor across the state that could go in. And so working with the attorney general, that's how we have been helping staff in some of the smaller counties in handling these more difficult cases. Now, when we do it, especially with our resource prosecutors in traffic and domestic violence and child sex cases, our goal is to go in and train, and I think it's the goal of the attorney general also, our goal is to go in and try to train that part-time prosecutor or newer prosecutor. This is how you handle the case so that hopefully they learn and in the future could do it themselves. Does that answer your question, Mr. Chair? That does. Yeah, thank you for that. Appreciate that. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry and you may proceed. Well, I just wanna say very briefly that you and I have known each other for quite some time, and in your efforts in Greene County, even when you were working with the state auditor, and the city I worked with was being audited for my predecessor's actions, that was less than fun. However, you've always been an honorable and an honest individual in all the dealings that I've been involved with, and as your representative, yes, sir, I do appreciate the fact that you remain within your constraints, and I don't think there's enough of that going on in the state of Missouri. And I just want you to know publicly, I really do appreciate you and all the efforts that you've put forth over the decades. Thank you, sir, appreciate that. Representative Hine, you recognize for an inquiry. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. So the one thing that I've learned to really respect about you is that you run a tight ship. Every single time you've been in front of our subcommittee, you're not wasting money, and I appreciate that from you. And I always feel like when you have an ask, it's because you truly need it. And that, again, is not lost on me. So I appreciate that. Sad that this is gonna be the last time you're gonna be in front of us, but I appreciate the work that you do, and I appreciate the sentiment that you always have the taxpayer in mind when you're making asks and you're making decisions within your division. So I appreciate your work. Appreciate, again, the work that you've done in Greene County. Sad to see you go, but I wish you well in your retirement, and just thank you for being a good steward of what we do as a public servant. Thank you so much for that work. Well, again, I'm humbled and appreciate that remark. But as you all know, in Greene County, we had budget issues in the 80s and 2000s, and I, as the prosecutor, I had to make sure I had a budget that could withstand public scrutiny. And then I did work for Tom Swyke as Chief Litigation Counsel and the Estate Auditor. And regardless of what people may think about Tom, Tom really was concerned about how public funds were expended, and he drove that into us. Now, sometimes the auditors had to be reined in, as Mr. Chappell would know, and I did my best, Mr. Chappell. But the concern that Tom always had is how are we expending public funds? And I think one reason he ran unopposed for reelection as auditor was because the officewas equal opportunity, didn't matter if you were a Democrat or Republican, if you were misspending public funds, you were going to get whacked. That's probably not a professional term for an auditor. So that's just been bread in me. And having grown up in a blue collar family and appreciating, we all pay our taxes. And we expect public service. But I'm also mindful that I have a responsibility, just like you all now have a current responsibility, of making sure that that money that people work hard for and pay taxes on is spent truly to advance the public good. And I would be ashamed if I didn't do it otherwise. So again, I appreciate it, and I'm humbled by your remarks. And I hope you consider our request. Like I said, I know GR is tight. But if we want to have a statewide conviction review unit, consider at least giving me one attorney and the investigator to at least start out and see what will happen. And then my successor next year can come plead maybe more. I don't know. Thank you. Thank you for your service to the state. Thank you for your budget presentation. That'll conclude the budget presentation for the Missouri Office of Prosecution Services. Of course, we've got to go up the floor. And we'll go ahead, and let's take 30 minutes in recess. And so if you need to eat or something, go ahead and do that now, along with anything else you might need to do. And of course, we need to recess for session. And so we will stay in recess until 1030 this day.