Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the committee. I will tell you, on a snowy day, I recognize what it takes to get here, and so I want to thank you and the members of the committee for being here. I know that this is part of the daily grind and part of the job that you have, but I also recognize it takes a lot of time, and so I appreciate you doing that. Governor Keough is excited to work on behalf of Missourians in cooperation with the legislature, and I certainly appreciate the opportunity to present this budget to you. I'm going to go through it relatively quickly, if that's all right with you, Mr. Chairman. Current staffing within the office is we're at 29 people. The structure that Governor Keough's office has is a little bit different from his predecessor. There's certainly no indictment in that, just in terms of we structure it a little bit differently with some more policy staff in our office. That's just to kind of reflect the model that I'm used to and the model that he is used to, where we have a few more policy staff instead of just one person as a policy expert. Flip the tab to the mansion operating expenses. I just want to clarify, there's actually six positions paid out of the governor's office core and the mansion core, so we have one of those vacant right now. The coding in this we'll clean up next year in the budget. If you flip back to National Guard emergency, this core item exists to allow the governor to activate the Guard during state emergencies. If you look at the previous year, there was a $2 million supplemental, and last year's budget for Operation Lone Star, that's what took that amount to $6 million. That is not the case this year. Special audits tab, I'm grateful for the flexibility that you give us in this regard. We don't have any plans to use this, but I appreciate the flexibility and would certainly like to maintain it. The ag resiliency tab, this came in the previous administration, and I'm appreciative of it. This allows any unspent National Guard emergency dollars to be transferred into a fund that supports ag-related disasters. We have not had to transfer in that yet. If we do so, and if the committee and the legislature decides that that's appropriate, then the first transfer could occur potentially at the end of fiscal year 2026. The job class details, again, this is based a little bit on the previous administration. We'll clean this up in coding next year. The org charts that you have represent our present structure and staffing. And then flexibility requests, the General Assembly has been very, very good to us and our office to give us 100% flexibility between PS and E&E, and I certainly appreciate that and request that that continue going forward if it suits you, Mr. Chairman. With that, I don't have anything else to present. I'm glad to take any questions that you may have. Any questions from the committee? Adam, thanks for being here. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dan, you want to run through the supplemental next? You going to wait for the opening statement? No, I can't wait. Get the reading glasses on and we can go. All right. So for the record, Dan Hogg, State Budget Director. We'll just get straight into the book. So first one in Book 1 is refunds. This is $2.4 million of federal refunds. There have been some providers that have sent some money back to us that we have to then return to the feds. Page 3, foundation formula increase. You can see on page 5, they're sort of in the middle of the page, how this breaks out. Virtual students is $1.5 million of the increase. That's for Senate Bill 727. Pre-K increase, $31 million. That's also from Senate Bill 727. Local effort calculation, $14 million. That's also from Senate Bill 727. And non-resident peoples and resident care facilities, $603,000. That is from House Bill 447. So this is all legislation that was passed after the budget was finalized last year. Page 7, $15 million for a small school grant. Also was part of Senate Bill 727. So that doubles it to $30 million total. Page 9, formula shortfall pickup. This is $95 million. We are seeing a shortfall in lottery and gaming proceeds. Lottery specifically reacts to the big jackpots, and we just haven't had the big jackpots this year. I think there was also maybe a little bit of aggressiveness in the amount of lottery that was put into the budget last year. And so to make sure that there is cash behind the formula so that these school districts don't have to see a reduction this current fiscal year, that's what this $95 million is. Also, just to let you know, we have an item in the FY26 budget for $150 million to pick up lottery shortfall, trying to sort of right-size our lottery appropriations going forward. Page 11, this is some Medicaid authority. We are able to get some Medicaid match in our schools for the severely disabled. And so this is $3 million that we're able to draw down from the feds. Page 13, performance-based assessments. This is $3 million. These are assessments. You can see they're sort of in the middle of the page, English language proficiency. These assessments meet the federal ESA guidelines and the state requirements of testing 95% of the students. Page 16, this is some Perkins, additional Perkins funding that we're able to get through the federal government. This is for our career and technical education. So we're just asking for some additional federal authority there. Some additional federal authority here on Mo Healthy Schools, $65,000. Mo Healthy Schools is encouraged increased physical activity, targeted health and wellness awareness for our students. This is a federal grant. Page 22, this is additional federal funding. There was a federal grant. There's an existing federal grant that we're in year five of. The feds then re-upped it year one and year five overlap, so we're getting more money in this specific fiscal year, so we need additional appropriation authority because of the overlap of year one and the last year of the previous grant. Title II federal funding. This is for the Missouri Leadership Development Program, support principals, teacher academy, improving teacher and leadership practices for our teachers. Also includes recruitment, mentoring, et cetera, $6 million of federal funds. This one was cut back by about $9 million of federal authority last year. We're not asking for all that authority back, but we do need some of that back, and you'll see that on several of these. The next one, Title III federal funding. These funds assist English learners in meeting the same state academic standards that all children are expected to meet, $263,000. Again, this was cut back by about $1.1 million in the 25 budget. We're asking for $263,000 of that back. Voc Rehab, $15 million. Voc Rehab experienced a 24% increase in new applications in the two years prior to FY22. Basically, it looks like we're starting to get back to the level that we were at pre-COVID. There was a $15 million cut in this, and so we're asking for all of that cut back based on the demand we're seeing here for the Voc Rehab services. Page 35, DESE does the disability determinations. So for Missourians to get, like, federal Social Security disability, they have to have these disability determinations. It's through DESE. If this is not funded, we will likely have to start a wait list. This is $3.4 million. Again, about $7.3 million was cut from this budget. It's expected lapse, and we're not going to lapse that much. Page 35, adult education and literacy. This serves adults who have not completed high school. This is restoration of federal spending authority. Again, there was a $1.4 million cut. We're actually asking for a little bit more than that back based on the demand for this program. But again, it is federal funds. Page 39, the IDEA grant. This is special education grant for individuals with disabilities. This is just carryover funding from this FY24 that we need authority to be able to spend. Page 41, this is the high-need fund. So by state statute, the state pays for any students that are three times more than the average student costs. So these really high-need kids. And we put an estimate into the budget, but this is sort of the settle up because we are required by statute to pay this. So this is the $14 million for these high-need kids. Page 44, this is another one you see in the supplemental almost every year. This is special education increase. This isMissouri Supreme Court decision back in 1992 says local funds shouldn't be used to support this. This is all funds so again we make a an estimate in the budget and then we settle up so we've seen a pretty significant increase in the early childhood special education dollars. But again this is required by Supreme Court decisions the state pay this. The next one is on page 46 early childhood comprehensive system. These are carryover funds. They're awarded in January and February but then they have to be spent pretty quickly so that's why we're asking for a supplemental here. Page 49 is a teach scholarship. So this was a federal scholarship for early childhood care workers across the state to earn national credentials in college credit. Back in the fall, so under the previous administration, this was cut. They said it was mistakenly cut and is going to be put back in. So what we are doing here is we have put in enough money to support the students that are currently in the program so we don't pull the rug out from under them. We have told DESE not to start signing up any new program new students till we know for sure what's going to happen with the federal funds but we felt like it was important with state funds to support these early childhood educators who have already made a commitment to them that we would pay for their college or credentials and so this just continues to pay for those. But again we're not expanding the program we're not signing any new program new students till we know what happens with the federal funds. Page 51 is first steps. On first steps there is some cost increases based on new contracts with our providers. One of the other things that is happening here is that a lot of the providers don't want to be Medicaid providers because of all the extra paperwork and everything they do so we're not getting that match. Previously the state was able to fill out a lot of that paperwork for them and do that kind of stuff but the feds are saying that's not allowed now and so a lot of these folks are saying well if I have to jump through all those hoops I'm not doing it but we still need them as providers to be able to provide for these kids who have these developmental delays so part of this is also making up for some of those federal funds we're no longer getting. Page 54 is the charter capital improvement revolving transfer. This is two million dollars this is the amount that was put in the FY 25 budget in the treasurer's budget. The treasurer after looking at this has decided they don't have the statutory authority to be able to operate this program so what we are doing in the supplemental is moving it into DESE for the Charter School Commission to operate. Again this is two million this is the same amount we have in the current year's budget you'll see in the FY 26 budget we are recommending a five million dollar increase for this program and it's a revolving loan program so they can take a loan pay it back we'll load it out again for these charter schools to be able to deal with some of their capital needs. The next one is just the corresponding spending authority out of that fund. Page 58 is access scholarship transfer four point eight million dollars the feds changed the FAFSA application process and because of that we got data later than normal the data was different than we'd seen before and so we didn't have as good a data to estimate the number of kids that were going to be on the scholarship and so because of that we're going to be up a little a little short in this this just make sure that for the second semester we're able to give everybody the grant that they are expecting. Page 61 then is just the spending authority change there for that same item. Page 64 is $200,000 to redistribute access scholars so what happens here is we give a scholarship out maybe in the fall and then the student decides they're not going to go to the spring semester or whatever but we've used the appropriation authority for that full grant so if we want to take that but we're getting the money's not going out but if we want to be able to move that money to a different student we need more appropriation authority so that's what this is doing for us it's not increasing the total amount of the grants at all but it does let us use the appropriate authority basically again. Page 66 is fast track $3 million increase here we've seen pretty significant growth in fast track and so this along with the core will allow us to fund the estimated 2,200 students that want to take advantage of fast track. Page 69 the next couple are the same here these are the debt offsets so this is for State Technical College if somebody owes them money but they get a state tax refund we can intercept that and use that to pay their bill down so 69 is state tech, 73 is Missouri State also debt offset, 75 is our GR tax refunds this is just based on the most recent consensus revenue estimate and so this allows us to make sure that we can pay any of our GR refunds so that's individual income tax, sales tax are the biggest ones there but this is based on the new revenue estimate. The next one is a park sales transfer to GR this is just based on the amount of money we collect GR gets a percentage to offset the collection cost and so the sales tax has been up a little bit so we expect to be able to transfer a little more. On page 80 is the same thing but for soil and water. Page 83 is the amendment 3 transfer again this is one that's in the supplemental every year back I don't even know how many years ago 15 years ago amendment 3 was passed and it said that for highway funds it is the actual cost of collections or 3% whatever is less so if we go over 3% general revenue has to pay that difference in the cost to collect highway funds this is just our settle up here of how much GR is going to have to pay to collect highway funds over that 3% amount that's in the Constitution. Page 86 is lottery vendor payments their payments are going up mostly because of printing and mailing costs so this is 1.6 million dollars on page 86. 88's the increased transfer to their operations fund to make those payments. Page 90 now we're getting into this is something we typically don't do in a supplemental but this is for a new nurse call system for our veterans homes the other one is becoming so outdated we're worried about failure you know we're not able to get parts and those kind of things and so we want to get this update to that started as quickly as possible so that's why we have it in the supplemental. Of course that's assuming that this supplemental budget actually gets done a little earlier than the operating bills right? That is our hope that is our request. Page 92 is facility maintenance and design this is some spending authority increases we'll actually see the details on this later here when we get the House Bill 13 but this is for renovations for the mill bottom office buildings and then there is some increased rental costs on antenna and land leases for the highway patrol so these are the big towers that let their radios talk to each other and there's been an increase in the cost of those from the lease payments. Page 94 surplus property transfer again we're transferring more surplus property than we thought this goes to whatever fund that the item was originally purchased from that's where the funds go back so this 3 million will go back to various funds throughout the state. Page 96 re-billable expenses and so this is a appropriation where we buy things like for the whole state like paper and postage and those kind of things and we've seen some cost increases there as most of the country has with the inflation. Page 99 is MOPRM. MOPRM is a very small agency they have a retirement payout that is pretty significant as former director and this is just to give them some of the proper authority back that that used up for their funds. Page 101 St. Louis property consolidation so this is 17.2 million dollars what we did in St. Louis is we sold several buildings consolidating those into one building we're purchasing we've purchased the building right now with financing through the Missouri Development Finance Board but if we get this in the supplemental we can pay that off right away and limit our interest cost basically the amount we sold those buildings for is the same as the purchase price so we have the money in GR from that purchases this is just allow us authority to pay off the loan quickly we also put it in the 26 budget you only need to do it in one place so if you do it here and we would prefer it here because that saves us more interest obviously. I asked this question you might not know it so I might have to talk to the Office of Administration again where is that building again? I think it's in the county. Oh it's in... so that means that this the state doesn't...doesn't have any more office buildings in St. Louis. Yeah, let's not just do, you know, gallery sideline conversations. If you want to hop up here on the mic. Thanks. Sorry, Brian Nansen, the director of FMDC. The new office building, let me sit here, sorry, it's not working. New office buildings located at 1390 Timber Lake Manor Parkway, which is in Chester, city of Chesterfield, right off of 64 and 64, in between 64 and 270 and 141, kind of that general area. The office buildings we sold, obviously, are the ones downtown. We still have the Keithley building, which is on Choteau Avenue, that we're completely redoing to move in those teams that have to stay in the city limits and the city limits. But we have, basically, under contract or sold, it'll be about 550,000 square foot of buildings. That new building is 116,000 square foot, and the ones that need to stay are moving into post office and the old post office, as well as the Keithley building. So we've consolidated and downsized and really right-sized the portfolio. Okay, so Choteau and the old post office. Yes, Choteau is the Keithley building. Yes. Yes. Okay. So teams will be moving in there as soon as we're done with construction over the next month. Thank you. You're welcome. Okay, so that takes us to page 103, which is the CMIA authority. This is the Cash Management Improvement Act. The federal government requires us to pay them back some interest based on federal funds and how long we hold those. They don't publish the interest rate until December. It went up to 4.625. Also, obviously, we've had a lot more federal funds here in the budget than we have previous to COVID, so CMIA is up, but we are required to pay this back to the feds. Page 105. This is our fund correction. So we have an appropriation. If money gets inadvertently deposited into the wrong fund, this allows us to get moved into the other fund. In the bill, it should say GR, Fed, and Other Funds, so that lets us hit all state funds. It actually says General Revenue and the Federal Surplus Fund, so there's only one fund we can actually use for corrections, so this changes the language to allow us to get it to all the different funds. So this was just an oversight in the bill, and this lets us correct it. Page 108. This is Crimes and Capital Cases. This is prosecution of crimes that occur in any of our correctional institutions. The county that prosecutes that crime is allowed by statute to ask us for reimbursement of those costs. Cole County has started to ask us for reimbursement for those costs. Other counties had previously. Cole County is now starting to ask us for reimbursement of costs to prosecute the crimes that are ones here in Cole County, so that's $30,000 to reimburse them for their costs, and by statute, if they ask, we have to pay. Again, we're seeing on page 110, this is Missouri Consolidated Healthcare Plan. This is $8.9 million. We're seeing increased healthcare costs, including medical and pharmacy trends, and so this is just enough to let us pay the claims to finish out this year for our state employee healthcare. Workers' compensation. The state is required to pay workers' compensation for injured state employees. This is about $3.4 million that we're asking to pay out workers' compensation claims. This is a federal grant, Resilient Food Systems grants. This is in the Department of Ag. We put in, this is a three-year grant. We put in one year of the grant. What's actually happened is they've given us the cash for all three years, and so instead of just sitting on that, this would allow us to distribute that out. This goes to specialty farmers, specifically meat processing in the state, and so this will just allow us to get that grant out to them quicker. Page 117, state revolving fund increase. This is pass-through appropriations for the clean water and drinking water, $144 million. They think they have the funds in here to do this. They feel like they also have the demand for, to loan out more of these, and so we're asking for $144 million here. We're also asking for that in the FY26, and I think we're gonna actually be sending you a governor's amendment in the 26 budget to increase that pretty substantially, because they feel like they have significantly more funds and significantly more demand, so you'll see that coming for the FY26 budget, a little preview there. The next one is a TIF transfer. TIF is based on the increment created, the amount over the baseline taxes created in these districts, and the Springfield downtown redevelopment is actually doing better than we thought, and so we need to have a little bit more TIF money to pay out based on the agreement signed there. The next one is the DRPP spending authority. This is the Downtown Revitalization Preservation Program. We've just seen a little bit more spending there on these projects, too. So that ends book one. Book two starts on page 125. We're now into the Department of Public Safety. This is just some federal funds that the department needs to return, so this is a refund appropriation of 6,100. That may be the smallest appropriate we got in the budget this year, but we'll... The next one is $250,000. This is a MOU with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement pursuant to the executive order, the federal executive order, and this is for training for state and local law enforcement as far as them being able to collaborate with immigration. Page 129 is forensic grant increase. This is $140,000. This is additional federal funds that can go to our various crime labs around the country, or around the state. You can see there a list of those there in the middle of the page. Page 131 is a request. This is funds to support the Missouri Information Analysis Center. This is part of Operation Relentless Pursuit that the governor outlined in the state of the state to get the violent felony warrants off the street. And so what you'll see in the FY26 budget is nine additional troopers to work on this. This is to just get this started as quickly as possible, so this is the supplemental piece of that. Page 133, sports wagering enforcement. This is a couple of FTE to start to do the background investigations in order to award the licenses on the sports betting. So we're trying to get that going as quickly as possible after the vote of the people, and so I think we're trying to get that going in the supplemental so we can get these people hired that have to investigate the companies that would come in and operate the sports betting. Page 135, this is the first of these that you'll see. This is a transfer of the recreational marijuana. This is the transfer to the veterans. When we did the estimate in FY25, it was very new. We didn't really have much data on how much the recreational marijuana was going to bring in. So we did a pretty conservative estimate because we didn't want to get too high and have people spending money that actually wasn't going to come in. And so we actually undershot it, and so this is just sort of the settle up here. You'll see this in the other three places as we go through the budget. So now we're in the Department of Corrections. I know you've heard their budget, so a lot of this is similar to what they had in their 26 budget. This is the healthcare contract increase. I think they've talked to you about that, but it starts this year. So that's $20 million for this current fiscal year. Dan. Yes. Who is our healthcare contractor now? Trevor can give you all those details. Trevor. Trevor Foley, Director, Department of Corrections. Our current provider is Centurion Healthcare. Centurion. And they've been how long? Was it five years? Their award was November 15th of 2021 when they became the provider. Five years. Thank you. Okay. Page 141 is an increase for their substance use contract. This will allow us to staff and use 90% of the beds available for substance use treatment in the facilities. In FY25, we have about 80%, so this allows us to go to 90% to be able to provide substance use treatment so that when our folks get out, they're not addicted to drugs. Page 143. This is an increase for the toxicology. The supplies that are used in our toxicology, the drug testing we do.within our correctional institutions the supplies for that has gone up and so this is just the increase for those the cost of those supplies page 146 Dan yes 140 141 141 yes ma'am I know we got a lot of these I'm just trying to see it doesn't list who we contracting with or should I just get with the department to find out who we're contracting with Trevor Trevor can get you those no that yeah after after you can get now okay our current provider for substance use services is gateway gateway I think we were on page 146 this is our vocational enterprises within corrections this is just a cost increase based on increased prices and raw materials also higher sales and some equipment replacement needs page 149 is a debt offset for probation and parole page 151 is the offender communication monitoring so this is I'm sure Trevor talked to you about this but the FCC no longer lets us sort of build this into our rates and so this allows us to continue with that monitoring but we have to pay for it page 153 goes into apartment mental health this is our overtime this is every year is in the supplemental when the change for overtime was passed by the General Assembly they put it into the supplemental because they wanted to see this is the change where we had to be able to pay off comp time if requested by the employees this is not all of the overtime in the Department of Mental Health but it is the overtime that's related to that page 156 this is legal representation for the Department of Mental Health there is an ongoing investigation by the US Justice Department and this allows us to have some specialized legal advice that is used to dealing with these type of investigations page 158 is just some refund authority oh this is 5,000 so this is less than 6,100 so this may be the lowest the smallest one we got so this is just some additional refund authority for DMH page 160 is an increase of transfer authority from the abandoned account this is just when there's funds that are abandoned there's a transfer from the abandoned fund account to the mental health trust fund page 162 this is the IGT transfer for DMH this is basically where we take our state funds and this is an accounting mechanism to show them to the Fed so that we can get our match drawn down so that's what this is page 150 164 is an increase to the opioid community grants this was cut back I think this was cut in the house they have the balancing rule where that they want to spend it somewhere else they have to cut it find the money somewhere this just allows us to sort of put that money back into the opioid grants so that we're not shorting any of the providers that are providing this work for us page 166 this is increased medication costs at our Department of Mental Health facilities there's a new antipsychotropic drug that's been pretty effective but it is more expensive so we're seeing some increased drug costs here next one is utilization cost increases you can see on on 169 if you turn to 170 it shows you the breakdown of those between both the behavioral health side and the DD side so you can see there it details out what the cost of the various ones are there and this also restores the waitlist so if this is passed there will no longer be we'll have at least funds for to not have a waitlist within DMH for these costs or these people next one is civil commitment legal fees by statute we have to pay some of the costs of counties for the civil commitments we have to pay the sheriff's mileage for executing warrants etc so we're seeing some increased costs there the next one is environmental goods so this is a cost increase for both medical care and janitorial services and our various state mental health facilities you can see on page 175 how that breaks down by institution page 177 this is an interagency fund authorization DMH pays these bills up front and then the Children's Division reimburses them for these services for our children that are both within the Children's Division and our developmental disability services so this is just allowing us to get the transfer right here the next one is some additional funding federal funding for our the CHIP program the Children's Health Insurance Program so we're just seeing a little bit more usage there page 81 this is additional federal funds this was another a place where it was cut back in the FY 25 budget and was cut back a little bit too far page 183 again the CHIPS program this is the immunization part of the CHIPS program we're expecting an increase of immunizations because the CHIP population is growing the next one is a federal grant for the Department of Health and Senior Services this is a grant that they got in October of 24 but the federal requirements are that they spend it by September of 25 and so this is just gives them a couple extra months to get that spent the next one is on page 189 this is for maintenance of the ventilators we brought during COVID we need to keep those up because if hospitals or whoever needs them if they're not kept up to the standards they're not usable so we have them we don't want this asset to become unusable so this is just the maintenance we have to provide on these the next one is the nurse loan transfer so basically our nurse loan program changed a little bit and what we need is authority to transfer funds from the professional practical nursing student loan repayment fund to the Missouri Board of Nursing Fund we're not really changing the program we're just it was changed where it's paid out of and so we need to move some money to the new fund that this program is paid out of next one is expanded women's health so this is funding for pap test pelvic exams pregnancy testing sexually transmitted diseases as people are coming off of the Medicaid program because when we came out of the public health emergency we're now allowed to verify income and that and so there's a lot of people coming out of Medicaid we're seeing a bigger demand for these kind of services page 197 this is a federal grant from CDC to support public health initiatives so this is just some federal grant that we're asking for authority to spend the next one is our Medicaid home and community based services again there was a cut based on lapse the General Assembly cut 171 million dollars from this program we're asking for 95 million of it back page 202 this is federal funds to distribute to triple A's you guys may have heard this but they're they'll run out of a federal authority we have the cash but we are gonna run out of federal authority probably in March and so another reason we'd like to see this supplemental passed as quick as possible this next one is the second of the three recreational marijuana transfers we saw the one to veterans this is the one for substance use disorder grants and then if you go to page 209 this is the transfer there's sort of an intermediate fund so we have to transfer it into this fund and then out of this fund goes to those three that's the way it was set up by Constitution so this is the all three of them basically into that fund that support the other grants out to the specific areas page 213 this is a non-count transfer authority from the Department of Social Services federal fund some of this authority was transferred in the last budget to the OA information technology fund I think we need some more transfer authority out of this fund page 215 is system systems management again the General Assembly cut about 2.8 million dollars out of this federal line we're asking for about 1.2 million of it backNext one is increased refunds in the Department of Social Services. Page 220 is the customer support portal. So this is to start phase three of our customer portal. We want to get that started because this will help cut down wait times on people calling in for benefits. We are under – the Department of Justice has started looking into our wait times, and so this will help us get going quicker to try to cut down those wait times. The next one is change in innovation grant. This is process improvements for wait times for application processing. Again, this is something we want to get going as quickly as possible because we are having – the federal government is looking into our wait times. The next one is the summer EBT transfer. Eligible children can receive a payment of $120 over the summer, $40 for each summer So this is just the federal funds that we'll pass through on that program. The next one is $11 million for the MEDIS. This is some system upgrades. Again, there were some cut to LAPS. We think that those cuts went a little bit too far, and we want to be able to make sure that we can do these system upgrades. Language 232. This is to request – this is basically just to correct language. There was an appropriation for an entity that actually is in the county, but the language in the bill says it's in the city, and so obviously we can't distribute it to them with that language. So this just corrects the language to be able to make that distribution. The next one is for whatever reason – I'm not sure why this is even in the state budget, but for whatever reason, we pass through the cost of the food at Fort Leonard Wood. So this is their – the food service at Fort Leonard Wood, and for whatever reason, that passes through our budget, and it's going up by $1.5 million. It's all federal. It's purely a pass-through. Next one on page 237 is the child welfare. So let's see. Is this the one we don't need? Okay. So on this one, the reason it went down is we only need the QRTP part of it, not the adoption subsidy part. We don't – that's not needed. We have plenty of funds there, it turns out. Page 240, kept it under a billion dollars this year for the Mohealth Net Supplemental, so we're feeling good about that – only $51 million general revenue. But this is the – basically the cost to fully fund our Medicaid program. The next one is federal pickup for our MMIS program. MMIS is the computer system that we use, and we were able to get the federal participation rate from 75 to 90 percent, so this is additional federal funds we're able to draw down for that. So the next one is ABA services. So in House Bill 11 last year, the language was changed to say, provided that applied behavioral analysis services are included in the CCBHO prospective payment system. So this is just additional authority to do that, but you will see reduced payouts in the physician's line. We were already paying for ABA. This just changed where it was being paid from, so this should be a wash in the grand scheme of things. Page 247 is the Medicaid access to physicians payments within the adult expansion group. So we are seeing an increase there with our projections, again, federal and other funds. Page 250 is the IGT for Mohealth Net. Again, this is where we show the feds our state funds, and then this is just an accounting mechanism to be able to draw those down. The next one is the transfer for the state public defender, which is the third and final one of the recreational marijuana recipients by constitution. Page 257 is the corresponding item to what we saw earlier in the House Bill 5 section of this. This is the renovations to the Millbottom building. On 260 is the corresponding item to the Missouri Highway Patrol antenna leases that was going up, so that's the corresponding item here. Page 262, this is in the reappropriation bill. The fund source in the reappropriation bill was changed. In a reappropriation bill, you need to reappropriate what was actually appropriated originally, so this just changes the language back to that. It's not any additional money for the hospital in Kansas City that we're building. This just gets the fund sources back to what was originally appropriated. And then the final one is FMRF adjustment. This is a constitutionally required transfer based on our revenue collections. Obviously, we don't know exactly what revenue collections are going to be when we do the budget, so based on where the fiscal year ended, we need to transfer about another $3.6 million to FMRF. So that is the supplemental for FY25. So there's a spreadsheet that Adam's handing out. We've got a couple of governor's amendments. Obviously, the world doesn't stop when we drop our budget, and some things have come up since we put our budget out. So the first one is an animal health disease control specialist. This is for a quarter of the year. We asked for this in the FY26 budget for an additional animal disease control specialist. We'd like to get that started early now because of some of the issues with the avian flu and some other things going on within. You asked for it, or the house budget chairman asked for it? I think he is supportive of this, yeah. He asked us if we could do this, so, yeah. Is this person primarily going to be staged somewhere around his area? I don't know that. Okay. The next one is some increased federal refund authority for Department of Social Services, $552,000. The next one is some additional spending authority for the Arts Council, which is $3 million, and then $250,000 for public broadcasting. The way that works is we put general revenue into their fund, then they're spending authority out of the fund. We are not putting any more general revenue into the fund. There's money in the fund. This just gives them some spending authority to spend money that's already in that fund. And then the last one, child care program in St. Louis County for law enforcement. We put $6 million into the budget for this. The fund that we put it into had to be spent by September 30th. They were only able to spend $3.8 million of that. So this is just the additional 2.2 to make them whole so that they can finish that project for child care for St. Louis County law enforcement. So those are that. Hopefully we won't have any other governor's amendments on the supplemental. We'll have some on the regular budget, which we'll probably be getting to you later this week, depending on how much of my staff can get in with the snow. So. Thanks, Dan. Any questions from the committee before we let Mr. Hogg loose? Didn't look like it. Thank you. All right. Next up, Val, whenever you're ready. DMH. Hey, Val, before you get started with your color coordinated tag team effort here, let's take like five minutes, give the committee a real quick break, and then we'll come right back. OK, thanks. We just do that for you. You know that, right? And only when it snows. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. All right, good morning, Valerie Hoon, Director of the Department of Mental Health, and we will just go ahead and get started. We're going to focus today on our new decision items. So if you'll go to the back, I will go ahead, Molly, and introduce yourself, sorry. I'm Molly Beckman. I'm Director of Admin Services for the Department of Mental Health, and I'll go through department-wide and director's office and admin, and then we'll turn it over to our support or programmatic divisions. Ready to go? Yep. Okay, on page two is a new decision item for the utilization cost increase. It's $285 million. That's broken down for DBH, for our Division of Behavioral Health, for $72 million, and it's $214 million. It's growth in our Medicaid programs. Next on page eight is a new decision item for environmental goods and services in our 24-7 facilities. It's $565,000. It's for medical care, food, housekeeping, and janitorial services. There was a, this is cost to continue, there was also a supplemental earlier. The next on page 12 is an NDI for the federal medical assistance percentage. It's FMAP adjustment. That's $26.4 million, and DMH, you'll see corresponding, it's GR, you'll see corresponding Fed cuts for that. Page 15, this is the 26, FY26 pay plan. It's $9.1 million. This provides a 1% salary increase for every two years of continuous state service and caps at 10%. State employees working in our 24-7s that already have this time of service pay plan will get a 1% cut. So now we can go to page 43. This is a new decision item for contracted staffing. This is $26.9 million. Due to staffing shortages, DMH facilities continue to need contract and temporary staff, so there was, this was one-timed in fiscal year 26, so we need to ask for it back in an NDI. And I just want to share, we've been talking with Senator Fitzwater about this new decision item. He, like us, is, he had to step out for another hearing, but he, like us, is concerned that we are having to continue to contract, especially for some clinical physicians. So we'll be sharing with him some information about what we think our salary ranges need to be on our licensed clinical social workers, psychologists, dietician, those type positions. Yeah, and this is 100% picked up by the feds? No, this is actually just federal cash. We don't earn any money on this, so this is just cash we have on our fund. Got it. No. Got it. The next NDI is legal representation, cost to continue. We just heard about that one in the supplemental. It's for this specialized legal counsel. Page 72 is employee support resources. It's $1.6 million and 5 FTE. This is a cost to continue from the previous year. We had asked for a GR pickup, but this is now picked up out of federal funds. So we will ask for another GR pickup on this next year. Page 92, this is the abandoned account transfer. This is $50,000. This is also a cost to continue from the supplemental. Page 121, this is IGT transfer. This is also a cost to continue. This is that accounting mechanism that we are able to show our federal match to the — or our state match to the federal government. Page 124, this is a $20 million new decision item. This is a transfer. There's a small amount of CHIP kids that don't line up in both systems in DSS and DMH. So DMH pays out of 0148 and DSS draws into 0159, so this just corrects the fund in which the cash is. So we just need to move that over to 0148. And I believe that is all of the NDIs in the first book. So we'll move to the Division of Behavioral Health. Good morning. My name is Nora Bach and I am the Director of the Division of Behavioral Health at the Department of Mental Health. Good morning. Vicki Schellmeyer, Deputy Director of Administration for Behavioral Health. So Behavioral Health starts in Book 2. We'll start on page 203, which is a new decision item for opioid community grants. Funding will continue to support substance use initiatives, including community grants for prevention programs, recovery support services, as well as collaborations for substance use disorders in primary care facilities. The Governor only recommended a portion of this item, which was the cost to continue, which matches the supplemental that Dan went over earlier. And this one right here is to treat the substance abuse for behavioral health within our facilities? No, it's actually within the communities, so there's various projects that we have that support this funding. I would like to know what those are. Okay. Thank you. Yep. We can get those for you. On page 221, 988, services cost to continue, 3.8 million GR. Very federal funding will be ending soon, therefore GR is being requested. Page 223 is a decision item for medication increase cost, 3.3 million GR. This item provides support for a 5.6 inflationary increase on medication and pharmaceuticals. A portion of this item was in the supplemental as well. Page 227 is ET, I'm not going to try and, sorry, I'm not going to try and pronounce this word. I will- Electroencephalogram. Thank you. I will not do it justice. A transcranial magnetic stimulation, I'll call it ETMS, for 4.2 million. This is for individuals with behavioral health problems who do not always respond successfully to normal treatment, such as therapy and medications. This ETMS has demonstrated success in improving some difficult-to-treat conditions, such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, anxiety, sleep, and substance use disorders. The governor actually recommended a 50-50 split between GR and federal funds. However, DBH does not have a way to generate the federal funding, so GR will be needed to fully support this item. This item actually was recommended in FY25 with one-time funding, so this request is to pick up that one-time reduction in 26. Page 230 is 2.5 million from Opioid Addiction Treatment and Recovery Fund for housing liaisons. The division provides funding for housing liaisons to help Missourians with behavioral health disorders secure housing and receiving supportive behavioral health services. Housing liaisons are communication hubs between tenants, landlords, and the division. This funding will actually maintain the current level of funding, as there was a GR corresponding reduction. So, 2.5 million has been reduced throughout our budget, and this NDI is in place of it. The next new decision item is on page 243 for St. Louis overdose reduction, 1.1 million again from the Opioid Addiction Treatment and Recovery Fund. This item continues to provide grassroots level outreach and engagement services to reduce overdose deaths. This grant has specifically targeted the disproportionate number of deaths impacting the black and brown communities in North St. Louis. Temporary funding is ending, and ongoing funding is being requested to continue providing services. In FY24, the initiative provided outreach services to just under 6,200 individuals with substance use disorders. On page 251 is a request for naloxone saturation in the amount of $8 million from Opioid Addiction Treatment and Recovery Fund. This funding actually was one time in FY24 and was reduced, so we're requesting that this funding continue to support overdose education and naloxone distribution training as well as actual distribution of naloxone kits, which can be used by law enforcement, first responders, hospitals, or other individuals' community groups. The next new decision item will be on page 290, which is civil detention or civil commitment legal fees, cost to continue. This was also in the supplemental budget that Dan went over. This item will provide additional funding to reimburse attorney expenses and sheriff mileage incurred on behalf of individuals civilly committed by courts who are unable to pay. On page 310, a new decision item for Certified Community Behavioral Health Organizations Medicare Economic Index, or otherwise known as MEI, just over $17 million, and $7 million of that is GR. There is a change between the department request and GovREC, and that was just a slight change due to FMAP calculations. This funding will increase the provider's rates by 2.5 percent. Page 322, a decision item for Behavioral Health Crisis Centers, just over $2 million, $700,000 of that is GR. Two of the five Behavioral Health Crisis Centers opened in FY25 with partial funding. This funding is to support those two, which were Sedalia and Union. On page – Ma'am, can I stop you? Sure. These centers, I think you said when you were discussing how many of those there were supposed to be around the state, two have opened.How much longer in the process of opening more of these centers or do I am confused with the difference? We have a total of 22 currently. Two of these opened in the past year, so the other three are on schedule for this year. There was five recommended in FY 25. Three opened with full year capacity. Two opened mid-year. So this will be the cost to continue for a full year funding for those two. OK, thank you. On page 325, a decision item for a place of services, $14.2 million and $5 million of that is GR. Funding will support case management or more intensive psychiatric rehabilitative services to individuals confined to nursing homes, primarily due to a serious mental illness. The goal is to help them move to a less restrictive, more independent setting consistent with their skills and abilities. Page 327 is community-based placements, $7.2 million. $700,000 of that is ongoing GR. $5.2 million of that is one-time GR. Individuals with serious mental illness often end up in environments of care that do not match their clinical needs. The primary goal in mental health is to assure individuals are served in the least restrictive settings and they are as independent as possible. There are individuals currently in nursing homes, psychiatric, or general hospitals or other inappropriate settings simply because there is no place in the community to accept them. These settings must be developed and are already reimbursable under Medicaid, and they are called intensive residential treatment services, psychiatric individualized living settings, and clustered apartments. The funding would support bringing up more of these in the community. Page 330 is funding for community behavioral health liaisons at $2.4 million. This is the federal match component of this item. The state match was actually placed in the Department of Health and Senior Services budget from the Health Reinvestment Fund of $1.3 million. So in totality, this funding is for 30 additional community behavioral health liaisons, specifically to assist justice-involved individuals, including those we hope to divert from the community restoration process, as well as those currently awaiting competency restorations. On page, we're going to skip a few. The next one will be on page 458, forensic mobile teams. This is just over 197,000 GR with three FTE. And the funding will fund forensic mobile teams who provide treatment to clients who are in county jails awaiting court-ordered evaluations, and those who have been court-ordered for competency restoration to the Division of Behavioral Health. And then the last decision item within behavioral health is on page 460 for Southeast Missouri Mental Health Jail Contract, 657 GR. This actually has been a new decision item for the past two to three years, but it's been supported with federal funding. So once again, we are asking for GR support, as we have no other funding federal. We have no federal source at this time. The two contracted jails that we work with are St. Genevieve County and Vernon Counties. And that is it for behavioral health. Thank you. Good morning. I am Angie Brenner, and I am the acting division director for Division of Developmental Disabilities. Prior to this last 30 days in the acting role, I was the deputy division director over the administration component of the division. And then I'll have Amy introduce herself. Good morning. I'm Amy Volkhart, and I am the director of budget operations for the Division of Developmental Disabilities. So we only have seven NDIs that we'll go through. The first one is on page 498 of book three, is the DD psychiatric stabilization new decision item. Currently, the Department of Mental Health's chief medical director is leading a pilot program in St. Louis area to consult with existing residential providers to prevent hospital boarding by stabilizing individuals in place and prevents them from losing their provider. This funding with the NDI supports expanding the service to the Kansas City area with an additional psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner. Then we will move to page 526. And here we have a new decision item cost to continue to restore federal authority that was reduced in the fiscal year 25 budget and is needed to pay our DD Medicaid waiver providers for services that they are performing for individuals currently being served. The department originally requested federal authority of $110 million. The federal cash that we used to support this item will likely no longer be available. And as such, the governor reduced the amount of the request to $28 million and switched it from all federal to general revenue federal split, which is more in alignment with the services that we pay out. Moving along to page 529, this is the autism GR pickup. In fiscal year 25, $1.3 million was appropriated with federal funding for ongoing evaluation and diagnostic services in Rolla and Springfield. However, these services are not Medicaid waiver, and they're not eligible for federal reimbursement. So this request is to pick up that $1.3 million in general revenue in place of the federal. Moving to page 531, this NDI has increased chip authority cost to continue for $2.8 million from DD Medicaid waiver payments for services performed for children eligible under CHIP. And this will likely sound familiar. Dan just talked about it for a few minutes ago in the supplemental. Moving along to page 534, this is a cost to continue request for $2.6 million in the Mental Health Interagency Fund Authority, which has really increased authority for children's division service payments. And again, this is one that will likely sound familiar, because Dan spoke about it with the supplemental for fiscal year 25. On page 537 is a new decision item for $846,304 for MoKids slots and coordination. The Missouri Children with Developmental Disabilities waiver is administered by the division and enables children who have developmental disability who are not otherwise MoHealthNet eligible to remain with their families rather than enter an institution or other out-of-home care. Our waiver in Missouri is approved to serve only 366 children per year. And these additional MoKids slots will cover 25 more children with developmental disabilities that do have complex medical needs. And then due to the additional waiver slots and the intense level of eligibility coordination, this also requests two FTEs. Can I ask, does that take care of all the children that would be in that universe in this state? Tell me what the actual number is. I don't know. That's a very good question. Is this a Band-Aid on a bleeding artery? I think the conversation is, what do you consider the universe? So you have to have a developmental disability to get in this waiver. We've got a lot of kids that don't have a developmental disability but have significant mental health issues or significant medical issues. And this waiver, while most of the kids that we have in this waiver also meet those two criteria, if you don't have that qualifying developmental disability diagnosis, you can't access this waiver. So how many children have that? So the 25, we think, help with the DD. Well, I'm sure it helps. What I'm asking is, how many of these kids are out there? That we know about, this would probably cover us at this point. But those kids that we just discussed, that universe is a different universe. And I can't tell you how many of those kids are out there. But it is a struggle. But you think the additional 25 slots? Helps on the DD side, yes. OK. All right. Thanks, Mel. OK. And then, I think this might be our last NDI. Double checking here. Our last NDI. Page 583. I'm going to back up just a minute. Just to give you context, we have a post-patient discharge funding that we do currently. And that's on page 577. And this is $2 million in funding that provides reimbursements to hospitals that have individuals who qualify for DD services, but they aren't able to discharge due to a lack of availability with the community placement with staffing capacity. So this new decision item on page 583 is associated with those DD hospital reimbursements. And this is a governor recommendation to increase it another $2 million to assist with those post-patient discharge costs to hospitals. And that completes book three. Thank you. Any follow-up questions for DMH before we cut them loose? Didn't look like it. Thanks for being here. Thank you. One question. Yeah, OK. I appreciate it. We're going to need help. She doesn't need help. She can do this. I've got her. All right. A lot of work. I'm going to make you guys do a lot of it. You're not the person on the page. Yeah. I don't need that. What do you fund with it? Yeah, I don't need that. We do. All right. All right. Thank you. Thank you. She wanted to hear. She wanted to know. She wanted to know. She wanted to know. She wanted to know. She wanted to know. She wanted to know. She wanted to know.Just one quick announcement for the committee. As of right now, we'll plan on having a hearing tomorrow morning at 8.30. I think we've got the judiciary and our favorite department, MoDOT. How timely is that that we're going to have them during a storm? So unless we end up canceling for some reason or whatever, that's going to be the schedule for tomorrow, 8.30. Thanks. That'll end the hearing.