I need to stop at page 229 under Grow Your Own. Grow Your Own was reduced by $2.5 million in Governor rec and has been zeroed out. OK, then page 240, the Missouri Leadership Development System. This was a new decision item request for $1,998,000. This was not originally recommended by the governor, but has since been partially addressed by a governor amendment. And that is the same for the next one as well. Page 243, the Missouri Teacher Development System. That has been addressed in a governor amendment. Page 253 is now we're on the Office of Adult Learning and Rehab Services. And this is the first new decision item in that office. And this is for additional federal capacity to be able to spend in voc rehab for $15.5 million. This is the first of several federal capacity line items that we have for you today. And there were some reductions in some of those federal lines last year in the process. And some of those were just a little too far. So we're asking for some of that back. Page 265 is the next one of those federal requests. And this is for the disability determinations, $3.3 million. And then page 277 is a new decision item for the independent living centers to provide them with $1.2 million in federal funding, which would be distributed evenly amongst those centers. That would bring us to book three, which is the Office of College and Career Readiness. The first item is on page 351. This is career centers. This is a recommendation by the governor for an additional $20 million for the 34 career centers. $15 million is recommended as one-time funding for capital improvements and equipment. And $5 million is recommended as ongoing for operations of those centers. One point of clarification, there's actually 57 career centers. There was a misprint in here. And there is some discussion, I think, coming within the appropriations from the House side about language changes that might be in the works to make that a little more broadly distributable. Page 363 is the new decision item for the voc ed distributions, our Perkins funding. This is a request for an additional $2.7 million in federal funding to be able to distribute these Perkins funds. Page 383 is a new decision item for career advising, governor recommendation for $1 million. This would serve 50 out of the 85 schools that are on the wait list for career advising services. Page 390 is a new decision item for literacy coaches. This was also addressed in the governor's amendment. Page? He put the 5.3 back in? He didn't put the full 5.3, he put $3 million in. Correct. Are literacy coaches not just teachers? No, they are not. But they tend to be master teachers that now are coaching other teachers and training other teachers. Got it. Page 393 and 395 are both Senate Bill 727 items. This is for the elementary literacy program transfer and the program dollars related to that. So we're not funding those? No, we did not. The governor did not recommend these two. This would be for the home reading program for kindergarten through fifth grade. So we passed legislation last year, and we're just not going to fund the associated costs with the legislation that was passed last year? I think there was a prioritization of sorts on the cost, because that was such a high ticket bill. $5 million? Well, the bill in total. Senate Bill 727 in total. $300 million or whatever it costs? $464 million of new GR in our bill. So just for the rest of my committee here, I have a little bit of a problem with passing legislation and then not funding it. So we'll see what the House does with your budget, but I'm going to be funding the requirements of a piece of legislation that we passed last year. I certainly appreciate that. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. I think the next page then is on 410. This is for the Missouri Healthy Schools. This is $65,000 in additional federal funding for that program due to an increase in the grant. Page 423 is the new decision item for the Comprehensive Literacy State Development Grant. We have one of these grants right now. We're in year five of that grant. We also got a new grant for another five years for $49 million year one of the new grant and year five of the old grant overlap. So this is additional authority for us to expend the portion of the $11 million for year two that we don't have core funding for. Page 427 is a core change for the Reading Literacy Program. That was a cut recommended by the governor of $2.5 million, zeroing that program out. Page 423 is another recommendation for a reduction of $525,000, which would zero out the Character Ed Initiative Program. That was 432. Sorry. 432, yes. Page 442 is the new decision item for the Adult Education and Literacy Program. Additional federal funding of $1.5 million to address the wait list and the 2,300 residents that are on that wait list. Page 445 is the core for the Workforce Diploma Program. Core reduction there of $2 million recommended by the governor, leaving a core of $2 million in this appropriation. Yes. That's what it was the year prior. Yes. Page 450 is the core for the Feminine Hygiene Products. The governor's reduced this one by $350,000 to a core of $650,000, which reflects more the need that we have seen in requests from LEAs in the past years. And then page 455 is the new decision item for the STAR Academy, a turnkey intervention program for middle school students. It's a hands-on STEM curriculum. Governor recommendation, $1 million. That brings us to book four. The first core change in book four is on page 457. This has been core reduced to zero as we've expended all of the money in this fund. This was part of Senate Bill 681 back in 2022. First new decision item in this book is on page 489. This is the performance-based assessment. This is a recommendation of $3 million to address the MAP-A alternative assessments for students with disabilities. Page 497 is the new decision item for the Innovative Assessment Demonstration Authority federal request for $500,000. This demonstration, if we are successful, would allow us to submit a waiver to the feds to waive some of their current assessments. So what is it you're doing right there again? So this is a demonstration grant that would allow for the trying of other types of assessments and the measuring of the success of those assessments. And then if we have successful results, we can use those results to then request a waiver from the feds to waive some of the assessments they currently require us to do. So is that part of that group that some of the schools are already joining into? It's related in that the ultimate goal is to be able to have through-course assessments during the course of the year, rather than waiting to the end of the year and just doing one big assessment. OK. I fully, fully support that. You're looking at trying to measure growth instead of some test at the end is basically what you're trying to get at, I think, isn't it? That's the idea. So this is a federal grant to kind of prove the concept and hopefully expand that over time. Yes? Page 506 is the new decision item for collaborative initiative, competency-based education. This is $3 million. It actually relates to the tab before that, the Success Ready Student Network, which was one-time funding only of $3 million. So this would be replacement funding and ongoing efforts in that area. Was it recommended? No, it was not recommended by the governor. Can I ask another question? So is this the money to expand that? Is that to expand that initiative? Is that what you're saying, to let more schools get in? It's to support more ongoing work in that regard. And on page 507, it kind of outlines how that would be divided up and done or utilized for this funding, if received. OK, thank you. I think the Success Ready Student Network would continue their work. And we would try to support them in that work. Some of the, like the item before this, would be somewhat related to that. It'll be tougher to get the ball moving quicker if we don't have this funding. Wouldn't it mean that you're probably not going to be able to expand to some of those other schools that are asking to get in? Is that part of what would happen? It would be up to the network to decide how they want to handle that.but because they are, in some ways, partially self-funded in terms of the work that they're doing. So we just wouldn't have the resources to support them at the same level we have had this past year. But most likely, probably, not all the ones. Because I think more and more are wanting in. Is that correct? That's correct, and with slow progress. OK. Page 531 is a new decision item for Title II federal funding increase of $6 million, recommended by the governor. Page 539, new decision item for Title III federal funding, $263,000, recommended by the governor. Page 570, new decision item for the SPEC-ED grant, IDEA, request of $26.7 million in federal funding. Page 557 is a new decision item for the High Need Fund, recommended by the governor for $14.7 million. And that is the last new decision item, or core change, in book four. Book five is the Office of Childhood. Thank you. The first new decision item there is on page 633, Early Childhood Special Education, a request for $20.7 million general revenue, recommended by the governor. This is to address a shortfall of funding in fiscal year 24. Nothing like walking in and asking a question. I'm sorry. Obviously, a lot of us have lots of committees this morning. Office of Childhood, obviously, we've had some changes in the department. We've had a lot of issues with child care subsidy. So what a perfect time to jump in and ask that question. Where are we today with payments to our providers? Is there still a backlog? Good morning. Can you hear me? I am Kelly Jones, Deputy Commissioner for Learning Services for DESE. So I've been on the job for four months. So I am gathering all this information. But to talk about your point, Senator, it is very difficult to really explain all of it. But I'm going to try to break it down into language that I think is the easiest way for me to understand, which I think, in reality, will be the easiest way for you to understand. A lot of talk has been about the backlog. And that backlog really is from January to December of 2024. That is when the system, the IT system, was not working. That is when things turned into a hot, hot mess. So what happens is if a provider needs or thinks there's something incorrect, they somewhat, I would call it, almost create a ticket, which we call a PRR, which is a Payment Resolution Request. And in those PRRs, it could be anything from the child was not identified correctly, the attendance wasn't correct, we owe them, they owe us. There's just a lot of things that can happen. So we took our DESE team and we took team, we contracted out two different types of contracts to review all of those PRRs. So what I can report today that all of the PRRs, which were about 32,000 plus, because people were just immediately putting these tickets in, there were about 32,000 plus. And from January to September, all of those PRRs have been reviewed. So what that means, a lot of them have been closed out, a lot of providers have been paid. There are still providers that we have identified that we still know we owe, but that has been, at least they're reconciled and closed, so we can start paying them. So in the coming weeks, those providers that we still owe money to will be paid. October to December. And can I cut you off there? Yes, you sure can. So in the coming weeks, they will be paid. Well, what happens is once they're reconciled and then we've identified from all those months that we owe them money, then they have, an invoice has to be created, has to go through the financial piece, and then the money's sent out. So sometimes it could take up to a couple of weeks once that reconciliation is closed out and we owe them money. Okay. And then October to December, our system was working. The calculator was fixed, the process, a lot of the IT stuff was taken care of. So there are a lot fewer PRRs or tickets, if you will, from October to December. So we are still moving on those, but feel pretty confident that most of those are correct and we don't owe a whole lot of providers in that bunch. And then from this point on, in 2025, things are looking like the IT system is working. Okay, who's the contract with for the whole, for that? Well, there's a lot of different, WWT and- Or who screwed up the whole online system where everything failed? I mean, this went online, but this wasn't a DESI system or wasn't created within ITSD, was it? Wasn't it a separate contract? That is correct. Okay, and who's that contract with? That was with WWT and MTX. Okay. Those were the software. And we're still- And Kindersystem is a piece of that too, because that is the attendance piece that is fit into with those two. Okay, and we're still contracting with them? We are. Phase one is complete. It'll be complete at the end of the month, and that's closing things out and fixing this calculator and things like that. Then we have a phase two, which is when we start moving things to enrollment. And that is the piece that we are entering in right now, because the governor and the federal government has charged us to now, instead of calculating with attendance, we have to calculate per enrollment. So phase two of this contract, we do plan to move forward because that system is pretty complicated. We'd have to go re-bid everything out, take another nine to 12 months to do that. So we do plan to move forward with WWT and MTX for phase two. And that is what that piece of it is. And obviously very supportive of the movement from attendance to enrollment. That's absolutely imperative to keep these centers afloat. Obviously that's how you pay stuff, right? You have to pay your bill, you have to pay your teachers, whether somebody's in the classroom or not. So very supportive of that. However, the last thing I want us to do is go live with that system and not have it be ready and then be back in the same place we were. I mean, Senator, like I remember Senator Black, I don't know if he meant to- I wasn't involved. I ordered this stuff. Seeing a reply all, nothing like a reply all email to the entire General Assembly. I don't know, somehow I received that email. But seriously, it's one of those things where you talk about something that impacts every single district across the state and where all of us are beyond frustrated with the lack of, I don't even know what to say, just the bureaucracy nightmare that that created. So I don't know. Is it ready to go live before you- Well, you are correct. And obviously we are paying close attention to that. When the governor in the state of the state, he charged us with that. And he said the next fiscal year, which a lot of us in our minds thought July. And we were in a little bit of a panic because that was probably not going to be appropriate. And we'd probably be doing it as quickly as we've been doing it. So I believe that we have been able to kind of refocus on that. Our game plan is right now, we are writing the companies, or I am not writing because I am not an IT person, but we are writing the scripts to go into phase two. And what they will do, I mean, we've all learned from this. They will go parallel with that attendance piece. And our plan would be once that is run and tested, we will not do, we cannot do what happened the first round. Go parallel with that and hopefully go live in approximately October with pay on enrollment. Firm believer in communication. I think we probably could have done a lot better job in that in communicating with our providers. Even when we were on fire, we are going to start the communication now talking about enrollment, because that will be something else on their end that they will have to know how to do. It'll be a little bit changed for them again. So we have got to start talking about that. We've got to start training people on how that piece looks. So we are ready to go live in October. So a lot of lessons learned. So I would like to sit here with full confidence and say that I firmly believe we will be ready to go in October. Okay, thank you. All right, you're welcome. Just one question, Kelly, before you leave. When we change over to this, it sounds like new system. Does that mean new iPads, completely new system? All right, that's good. People who have been using X for attendance are not going to be asked to throw that in the trash and learn a new system. It's going to be a change within the system used today. Correct, but there will be a little shift because that iPad is obviously attendance. So that will no longer be really, wow, the calculation is figured. So I think there'll be- But they're still going to be able to use it because there's other reasons why the providers want the attendance, right? When it comes to, I'm going to say security, that may not be the correct word. All of it's still going to be done through that same system. Yes, that is correct. Yes, okay, thank you. Okay, all right, thank you. Page 657 is the first major core change in book five, and that is to the Imagination Library. The core had been $11.1 million. Governor's recommending $6 million there to more closely reflect the number of children that have taken up, enrolled in this program and are anticipated to enroll in this program, so to more closely match anticipated need. Page 667 is the new decision item for the Early Childhood Comprehensive Systems. This is a federal request for $639,000 to fully expend the remainder of this grant. Page 680 is the new decision item for First Steps. Request and recommendation by the governor there for $17.9 million. Page 705 is the new decision item for the Child Care Quality Initiatives. $1.6 million of federal funding requested. Page 713, new decision item recommended by the governor for $10 million.for child care innovation grants to support new centers partnering with businesses and community partners recommended ten million dollars in federal funding there page 715 is a new decision item for the teach scholarships recommended by the governor for seven hundred thousand dollars to continue the scholarships for those applicants that are receiving them right now page 723 child care subsidy discretionary there's a core reduction there to zero that grant out because that grant has ended and same with page 734 the child care discretionary grant ending there page 742 is the new decision item for general revenue or excuse me for our CCDF funding to replace 740 I'm sorry I said 742 and talking 740 sorry so on page 740 is the new decision item for the child care subsidy replacement funding we had fifty four point seven million dollars in our child care discretionary in there last year this replaces it with CCDF funding page 770 excuse me I can't use numbers this morning 742 and 745 are both to address the new regulations that Commissioner Kelly Jones was talking about with the federal government that requires us to pay based on authorized enrollment and to pay prospectively instead of paying retro retrospectively like we do today so the new decision items there the collective amount of those two new decision items will also address pain on the 2024 market rate survey page 748 is removing the ARP child care discretionary appropriate already that was in that section and that is that's all the major changes are new decision items in book five that takes us then to book six the first new decision item there is for the charter school capital improvement revolving fund this was over in the state treasurer's office for two million dollars the governor has recommended transferring it here and adding five million more to that to address the capital improvements needed on the charter schools so this first one is the transfer authority and then on page 774 is the authority for the program dollars next we have page 811 which is the Missouri assistive technology revolving fund a request for 200,000 an additional authority out of that revolving fund to work with the Department of Health and Senior Services on a project to put assistive technology in the homes of in of individuals that have dementia or Alzheimer's and allow them to stay in their homes longer that brings us to the transfers and we do have some core changes in those transfers do you want me to go through those two okay page 817 is the core change there for the county foreign insurance that we talked about the decision item earlier that funds the foundation formula on page 834 there you have the lottery proceeds classroom trust fund transfer and you can see on page 837 the core reduction that we talked about under the foundation formula and book one and that is the extent of the major court items senator thanks for indulging me I know it you love when I ask questions I'm gonna blame your questions senator sir poi for his bill this morning for to excuse my tardiness um I'm sure the chairman probably asked plenty of questions and beginning of the hearing but I did you weren't here I if we could go back real quickly first of all foundation formula the SAT and I'm sorry I don't have the number in front of me was increased to 7,000 the calculated amount for next year is 7145 7145 so that's the first increase in several years this current year it went from 63 75 to 67 60 when we do the recalculation we spread it over two years so this year had a partial increase okay and so the governor's request is an underfunding of the foundation formula to the tune of about 300 okay and then another question about our MSSD schools this is something I always have concerns about that we're not doing nearly enough for honestly for our most vulnerable students and I feel like they've always been treated kind of as the stepchild and a lot of folks even legislators don't even know they're in their backyard are how many MSSD programs we have across the state right now so there are 34 schools for severely disabled and then blind and deaf each okay so 34 mm-hmm plus the school for the blind and school for the deaf correct okay so the only NDI I see for for MSSD is the transportation no there's a three million dollars but in Medicaid spending so we draw a Medicaid match if the students receive like PT speech therapy occupational therapy physical therapy and our Medicaid eligible and then also for the trip some of the transportation costs for those Medicaid eligible children as well okay would you follow up with the committee just on teacher salaries staff salaries I know obviously these schools require RNs nurse assistants all of those things my understanding is we're still struggling with vacancies and a lot of these schools because of simply really hard jobs with not a lot of people to help them out so I'm really concerned about this and I feel like the department hasn't done nearly enough to elevate the needs and I'm certainly hearing it from an RN that works in our MSSD school in my district as well for parents who have kids who are severely disabled and they look around and see what's happening in the district school across the street and they feel like they're neglected quite frankly so continue to want to elevate that and really look at what we can do you know we're one of only two states to operate schools for the severely disabled I believe is that correct and I think we really need to take some steps forward to see what we can do that better serve these students thank you I just want to make sure I understand something right this underfunding of the foundation formula that was if I understand it was caused by I guess MSEP 6 testing made us move some of the districts that were in the pot to establish the state adequacy target move them out and move to other districts in that did well and that's what made the giant jump on certainly a contributing factor in under the MSEP 5 criteria we would have 300 or more districts that would score 90% or above and could be eligible for the performance group the the administrative rule cuts the or excuse me the statute limits us to the top 25% in that group so we would always have about 125 districts that would be in that group when we went to MSEP 6 the standards were elevated the scoring is much more difficult we may only have 35 or 40 districts that would score 90% or above and when you get that more selective group of districts their profile looks differently more expenditures and serve a little different population of students which well this year this year or next year as as MSEP 6 maybe is more more accepted and does better will that basket be mixed again so that number could go down or do you stay with what you got so every two years we have to look and part of that recalculation so we get to the end of this coming fiscal year next summer we'll start that process we'll look at all the districts that meet the criteria I don't necessarily expect the list to change significantly at this point because we're still within the same criteria so the list of potential school districts that can be included in this basket is that just I mean when you when it's time to get this number do you tell the dice and change it up or is it once you have it nailed down as long as they qualify they stay in there it would be based on their to think we will look at two years worth of scores and if they have both years above 90 they would stay in the hopper if they don't they come out okay so the expensive schools that were put in there now will stay there as long as they qualify as long as they stay above 90% maybe we should pull the dice and change that pot every two years for anybody that qualifies because some of the districts that may qualify next year may be less expensive it's possibility it happens there are some movement every year and it's you know the but it's always leaving because you're in you're in as long as you stay in as long as you stay qualified well if the the two years that we're gonna look at are two years that we're not in the same bucket as the last time so we could have a whole nother good but if you're in you're in if you still qualify you still qualify so yes correct okay thank you so can you can you explain why we went from MSIP 5 to 6 like what so since the inception of MSIP and it goes back to the 90s there's been multiple generations of that and each generation tries to be a little more reflective of what we need to what we think we need to evaluate when it comes to schools one of the biggest difference between 6 and 5 is within MSIP 5 you could either do well by growing students or do well by having high scores and as long as you did well and one or the other you had a really high score because you could do it was an either-or combination with MSIP 6 we've separated those out to where we have growth scores for every district and we have performance just levels scores for every district so it is much more difficult to score and it does a better job of disaggregating the districts if you will so and so we don't have 60 or 70 percent of our districts above 90 percent so it kind of spreads it out to where it's a little more representative we think and I think it challenges districts at a different level to try to make those improvements that they need to do so it's more rigorousQuestion dealing with that. If something happens with the U.S. Department of Education that takes some of these strings off of you that you have currently, is there a chance that some of this all changes and we look at more of a strict growth model by students and some different things like you're doing with some of your test groups that some of this could change dramatically in the near future if that happens? I think it's certainly possible there would be changes. Some of these requirements come through administrative rulemaking, but many of them are also part of the statute, so there would be statutory changes at the federal level that would have to be required to change some of these things. So I think at this point we're kind of a little bit in a wait and see to see what develops moving forward. What I'm talking about is say they do it as a block grant and they start coming down as block grants with fewer strings attached and it would give you guys the ability to do some of that. I'm just asking, is that something you are at least having the conversations about? Well we're certainly open to that, there's no doubt. Thank you. Any other questions from the committee? All right. I think we're done, right? Yes, sir. Thank you for your time today. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. The only other agenda item I've got is the auditor. Good to see you. You doing all right? What's that? Good morning. I did. I had a lot to lose. I carry, I carry, I got up to, my peak was 243. It's pretty high. Mr. Auditor, yeah, whenever you're ready. All right. Scott Fitzpatrick, State Auditor. Thank you for the opportunity to present our budget request. I also want to thank you guys for the, if Desi could go ahead and, yeah, yeah, that'd be great. We actually still have a hearing going on if you guys want to leave. Thanks, man. So thanks. Yeah, whenever you're ready, Scott. For the budget and the budget request and also want to thank you all for the support from, well, two years ago and then again last year after it got vetoed to provide our office the funding we needed to staff it back up. As I've said, the last couple of years when I took over, we were about 89 people in the office when we were supposed to have about 163. And so we were very understaffed and were struggling to just perform the basic functions we had to do that statute requires us to do on an annual basis. So the funding you provided us has helped us staff up. We have a ways to go still to get where we need to be, but we have gotten up to about 120 people, which is a significant increase. And with the wide ranging audit requests that we get from local governments and there's a lot happening with coven funding and money that local governments received during from the federal government. And as many of you know, there's a lot happening in the St. Louis area that has required our attention just due to requests from the city. So we have a lot going on in the office and the funding has helped us be able to address that. Our book is very short. We have two decision items. One is on page two. It's the governor's pay plan. So that's just what that was not a department request. I was just the governor's recommendation. And we know you guys will make a decision on the pay plan one way or the other. We just ask that whatever that decision is, we would appreciate receiving whatever treatment all other state agencies receive in that. And appreciate any consideration there. Page six is our core decision item. I kind of just talked about our staffing situation. And, you know, we primarily the main thing we do is audit. We have a few other functions, such as writing the fiscal notes for ballot initiatives, certifying property tax rates for local governments to make sure they're compliant with the Hancock amendment and certifying the general obligation bond issuances for local governments as well. To ensure that those are saving money when they do those. But those are our primary functions. And, you know, as I said, the vast majority of our time, effort, and the money you guys provide us goes to paying auditors salaries and the travel expenses associated with going around the state to the various places that need to be audited. So that's the request on page six. $13.489 million. If there are any questions, I'll answer them. Any questions from the committee for the auditor? Doesn't look like it. Scott, thanks for coming in this morning. Thank you. All right. That will conclude the hearing this morning. Thanks for coming, guys. Thank you.