All right, we'll go ahead and call the Senate Appropriations Committee to order. We've got a fairly busy morning, as you can see from the pile of books in front of you. We've got social services that I think we're going to start with. I think I saw Director Richardson somewhere around here, if he's going to run through Medicaid for us, and then MoDOT after that. So Jess, I think you're still technically acting, right? I am. Yes. So good morning. Thanks for being here. Yeah. Thanks for having us. I am Jess Bax, Acting Director for Social Services, formerly have seen you on this committee as Director of Developmental Disabilities, and prior to that, Director of Senior and Disability Services. So good to be here with you here today. It is day 29 of Acting Director, so I'm going to let Pat go through most of the budget. Three things I wanted to point out before we start, there are kind of three priorities related to budget that I wanted to mention in case they come up is, one, the Family Support Division. I know your office is probably getting constituent calls related to timeframes of Medicaid applications, Medicaid determinations, and SNAP eligibility. That's a huge focus area. You'll probably see plans change from what was originally put together, and that is a work in progress with the Governor's Office. We will keep in close contact with everyone as we progress through that planning. And then, two, technology projects. I'm asking the team to step back and take a close look at any that have not started yet, where there's a large RFP that was going out to see if there are other options. We thought through all of the possibilities and looked at what other states are doing. And then, three is Families First funding. I know that there's been some narrative and some concerns around prevention funding not being fully utilized, and so one of the things that I wanted to talk through in the coming weeks is an outline of why some of that may not be used and why that may be more federal hoops to jump through than it's worth it for the state and cost more. But a breakdown of kind of what's feasible and what's not. So with that, I will let Pat get into book one. All right. Patrick Luebbering, Department of Social Services. It's my understanding, Chairman, that we're only supposed to do NDIs, or do you want us to do the whole thing? Court changes and NDIs. Court changes and NDIs. That's what we're asking everybody to do. All right. Thanks, Pat. All right. So we'll start on book one, page two, and this is the FMAP adjustment. So this is what is the federal Medicaid assistant percentage. What this is is every year, the feds do look at our Medicaid match or the federal percentage we get. It goes up or down based on our economy and population from some super secret formula that they have. This last year, it went from 6.53 down to 64.44, so a 0.87% drop on the regular Medicaid match. And then on the CHIP enhanced match, it dropped from 75.72 down to 75.11 for a 0.61% drop. This ended up in a 46.1 million GR pickup and 59 total. The reason it's not all GR is when we do this, we also go through and kind of throughout the year, the budget gets unaligned. So sometimes, even though you've got an FMAP change, we're a little bit too heavy GR. So we're going to ask for federal. The other component of this is 4E participation rate. In the 4E and foster care world, our FMAP rate is then taken by a participation rate, which is the number of kids that are 4E eligible. So for example, if the match rate is 65% and 50% of the kids are eligible, it's an effective rate of around 32.5. All right. Next page is page six. This is the departmental pay plan overall. Oh, before I go on, let me go back to the FMAP section. If you see on page five, and I'm not going to hit every single one of these, so for each corresponding increase, there's a corresponding core decrease throughout Medicaid's budget and the child welfare. So it's a net zero when you get to the end, just a GR federal. So I probably won't hit all these. There is a list of all of them right there. Next section is on page six. This is the department pay plan. So this is a time of service pay plan of 1% for every two years. In addition, for staff that already receive the time of service, so DYS staff, they will get a 1%. And also in the department's pay plan, the children's division gets a 1% increase on top of the time of service. Next section is the GR pickup or the pay plan on page 15, $23,000. This is for the VOCA fund and the DFAS revolving fund, $23,000 GR, just because those funds can't support the ongoing GR there. Next section is page 39. This is the office administration IT transfer. So this is a non-count. Cost to continue adds up. This is the money IT earns money. We transfer them money based on their earnings. We need some additional funds here. This was just set up a couple of years ago, so we're still trying to get that appropriate to the right size. Next section is on page 66, and this is in the MMAC section, the Medicaid audit compliance unit. This is for their systems management. Last year, there was a federal court cut. We do have a spend plan around this that equals $7 million. It was cut back. We knew we had some lapse last year, but ongoing, we still need that money to keep those enrollment broker and audit systems going. So this is the current system needed and ongoing for the current system. On page 76, you're going to see a new decision item of $6.2 million. We are looking at procuring and building a new MMAC provider enrollment system. So this is going to help us with a lot of the vendors and providers are wanting us to upgrade our system, give them a lot of flexibility. We do have Rich Ferrari here from MMAC if you have any questions about the system. The amount of $6.2, this is not the total cost of the system. This is just one year. I just want to make sure everybody's clear on that. The original estimate was around $24,000, $25,000, but we think it's going to go up. No. Yeah. No. I know. It's, yeah. So we are working on new estimates. Once we get those new estimates, we will get them to the committee. All right. Next. And I think. So the system. Thank you. So didn't we have a new system? Is this? This is not for. This is not the eligibility system. So this is the system that does the provider enrollment for the hospitals, physicians, things like that. There's also some audit components that as they do the enrollment, they can look into the, look at the providers, what they're billing, things like that. So it's two separate systems. Yes. And so that first system, it's all up and running and. Yeah. That is a current system and so that's maintenance on the current system. And so once we build the new system, it will replace the old system and then you'll have the ongoing maintenance on the new system. So it's still two systems. You said the eligibility system. So these are both provider enrollment systems. We have a current system that we just did the NDI on, if that's what you're asking about. No, I'm asking about what system did we just install? It was years ago. MEDIS. MEDIS. Medicaid Eligibility. Yes. Determination and Enrollment System. Yeah. This is for individual enrollment. Okay. So for the clients we serve, that's for their, make them Medicaid eligible or SNAP eligible or whatever. This is for the enrollment system for the providers that provide services to the clients. Okay. So it'll be two systems. MEDA and a provider system. Yeah. And MEDA is all up and running and all the kinks out of it. I know. I just. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Okay. That's the last NDI for book one. Then we get to the family support division. Your first page, we will go to page 158 and this is a significant core change. And this is also an IM field. You'll see about a quarter of the way down on page 158, there's a switch between 610 and 168. What this is, is years ago when we moved child care over to DESE, we were doing estimate on what our current federal funds were for DESE versus 610 because we do a cost allocation. This is just a cleanup to get it in the right bucket because we actually earn more on the Medicaid side than we originally thought. Next section is on page 166. This is for the IM field component. So this is a switch of about $1.4 million from 168, which is a DESE fund, to 610, which is our federal fund. So again, it's just cleanup from years ago that transfer over to DESE. Next page is FSD staffing on page 170. This is new staff, additional staff of 55, 2.77 million, 1.1 million GR. So these additional staff will help us answering calls, getting our Medicaid up to date, and helping the overall eligibility process for FSD. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Thanks for being here this morning. Would you just share a little bit about the need to improve the call system?Yeah, I think there's a couple of different components here. There is SNAP eligibility within our call system and income maintenance, and then there is also Medicaid eligibility, so redeterminations and applications. And so, where we are working right now, we're about three months behind on the applications given the type of application for Medicaid. And SNAP, we have, with the call center, around 10,000 applications that are rejected just for not meeting the 30 days interview. So one of the things, in addition to the staff here, is that we need to look at overall efficiencies, how other states are doing this as a best practice. So one of the things that we are looking at is a shortened and condensed interview on the state SNAP side, and then also some ways that we can look at utilizing contractor capacity with our redeterminations, as well as the ability to specialize some of our call centers but still have a remaining portion of the team that is trained in both. Right now, we have a lot of, almost all of our team that's trained in both, but that is really, when it comes to those specialty types of Medicaid, which is great, because we have a lot of those in Missouri, we have the medical review team, we have the age blind and disabled with a special income limit, the MoKids with a special income limit. We have the spend down. So a lot of special categories of eligibility that serve the neediest people, but those take a lot of staff to spend specialized time. So that is where the plan is to really kind of take back those specialized teams and then have an ability to condense that interview so that we can free up the phone lines. Okay. And by doing this, you think you'll be able to free up the phone lines and meet the? That is the plan. So it's a kind of do, plan, do throughout the time period, but we'll keep everyone updated. Okay. Yeah. I would appreciate that. You know, this is one of the things that I continue to just to have very grave concerns about how long people are waiting online for essential services, and hear a lot of frustration from constituents reaching out and saying, I've been waiting online all day and not getting nobody's getting back to us. And obviously it's putting the state in a tough situation that we can be forced to pay out a lot of money in lawsuits, quite frankly, because we're not meeting just the standards. And so I really hope that this is something that this committee can put some emphasis on and making sure that we are being as efficient as possible with these services. Thank you. All right, the next section is page 174. So in addition to the staff, we are doing, as Jess says, doing some technology and other improvements. This is an IM customer service portal. So this is some ongoing funding there, cost to continue of $2.2 million. What this will allow is to allow customers to access their account, connect to Metis. So the goal here is the more people we can divert to doing online things, it will take a lot of pressure off the call center and off staff to help them handle the more complicated cases or other needs that our clients can't do via the portal. On page 177, so this is the IM provider portal. A lot of our providers work with our clients on their eligibility and their processes. What this does is this is funding to help upgrade that portal to allow document upload, allow them to enter things, send documents directly to Metis in our eligibility system. So again, an efficiency thing, instead of going through our staff, they can upload things directly. So again, take some burden off the staff and increase efficiencies. Catching up to $19.99 there. The next is on page 180, change in innovation renewal cost to continue. We did bring an outside agency in to help look at the services that FSD does and look at their processes and procedures and some of their technology. There's a spend plan for this on page 181. What they're going to do is come and look at our processes. They're going to make some recommendations, help us to integrate some of our existing databases to share information across databases, across systems, to help workers work their tasks more efficiently so they're not constantly doing things in two or three different systems. Look at some of our resource centers to make sure our resource centers are being as efficient and as effective as possible throughout the state. Again, we do need the additional staff due to the issues, but we also need these technology and innovation pieces to make sure we're using our staff to the most effective and efficient way possible. The next is the IM call center automated IVR along those same lines. This is a chat bot. This is a cost to continue. This is the ongoing cost for the chat bot or the IVR. What this does is, again, helps keep our lines clean on the call center so if the chat bot can answer the questions, that frees up staff to answer other questions that can't be answered via online or via the chat bot. Next is on page 254. This is 51.5 million federal. This is a sun box or what is also known as a summer EBT. This was appropriated last year. During the process, we were appropriating administrative costs for this. Normally for most of our EBT programs, this does not run through our budget. So the other billion dollars plus of EBT runs directly from the feds to the EBT vendor. For some reason, when the feds set this grant up, they set it up differently. They set it up similar to DHSS's adult and child nutrition grant, which means it's got to go through a state appropriation authority. We did have to borrow DHSS's authority this year. So this is ongoing so that we don't have to do that again. The next is on page 308. This is the MEDIS system, the cost to continue, the one we spoke about a little bit earlier. This is the eligibility system for our clients that our staff work in for the MAGI population. So this is not all of Medicaid. This is just the MAGI population, the adult Medicaid, SNAP, things like that are still unfamous. We are working to get SNAP into MEDIS currently. This is a cost to continue. We took some cuts there, primarily federal last year. We did have some lapses previous year. But with the ongoing system's needs and the system being more mature, now we need that funding to continue operation of the systems for, again, the child and the adult population here. The next is a new decision item on page 311. This is $30 million, 3 million GR27 federal. This would be for the adult, so the PTD, the adult and disabled population that's currently unfamous to provide a new platform. As Jeff said, we're going to take a step back on some of these. We do need the authority to move forward. But whether that is on the MEDIS platform or a different platform, the goal is to have all the systems integrated on the best platform possible. There are a bunch of, and let me ask you this, there's a bunch of one times. Do you want me to hit every one of those and zero it out? I don't, unless the committee has specific questions about anything on those one time lines in the rest of this book. I don't think so, Pat. Okay. So we'll just. So that's it for the NDIs on there. We'll go to book 3 of 8. And again, I'll skip over most of the one times. On page 467, there's a blind pension rate increase. So this is an $89 increase to the blind pension rate. Currently the rate is around 828. This will take it up to $917 a month. This comes from the blind pension fund, which is 3%. We, the department, has to ask for this. In the past year, it was mandated that it was funded every year, but that is no longer the case. So we have to ask for it, and it's up to you guys whether you want to fund it or not. The next section is on page 501. This is a business enterprise for the blind. So this is the Fort Leonard Wood cafeteria that we run. As those costs go up, we have to pass those costs on to Fort Leonard Wood. This is some additional authority that we get from the DOD to send to the vendors there at Fort Leonard Wood for the mail services. Next section is on page 590. This is the adult high school operations. It's $3 million additional funding for adult high schools of $3 million. These centers, like the Excel centers going to schools, set up the adult high schools for individuals that didn't graduate in high school but later on want to get that high school diploma. They set up the centers to educate them. There was a bill that passed on this three or four years ago. And that's it for book three. Again, there's a lot in these books, but most of it's one times. Good morning. Morning. Good morning. How many centers, how many high schools we got operating, how many is that?There are four centers and two satellites. So book four of eight, we will start with an NDI on page 6045. This is a governor's recommended item of $5 million TANF. This is to partner with KC Scholars and Great Jobs in KC to provide services to operating these charter schools, early childhood services, family sports, and other adult programs around the Latino communities in the Kansas City area. We are still kind of working through a lot of the items on here, how we're going to put this out. As we get more information around this, we'll update the committee. The next is on page 647. This is AccessPoint. This was formally with DoOD and Workforce Development. It's designed to help students from underrepresented communities transition from high school to software development careers, and it's $3.5 million TANF. The next several are one-time course, 734, an NDI for Alternatives to Abortion, $4 million TANF to add to the Alternatives to Abortion. These are programs that provide counseling services for women who are at risk and below 185 percent of poverty. These include prenatal care referrals, medical and mental health care referrals, parenting skills, education, housing assistance, utility assistance, just helping these women get back on their feet and be successful parents. All right. And now we have a whole bunch of one-time course. And ongoing, we're on page 858, Victims of Crime Act. This is $25 million GR. The VOCA grant, as you guys have heard a lot about over the years, continues to go up and down. We don't know what next year's grant is going to be yet. Last year was 14. That's the case. We always have some carry over, 2 or 3 million, it seems like. If that's the case, we'll have, that'll give us 17. With this 25, we'll be around probably close to $40 million, 42. Currently our contracts are around 48. So this may or may not fully fund the programs. I know there's some frustrations because I try to send updates as we had it throughout the year last year. But the feds are up and down on this all year long. So we won't really know until probably June or July. Pat, can you say those numbers again for us real quickly? What was FY25 total for VOCA? So our total contracts was $48 million. Okay. And then this year, if we appropriate the $25 million, it would be a total? Well, the whole point of my rambling was we really don't know. Right. So it was 14 last year. We always have some carry over from the previous year because not everybody spends their money. So say that's $3 or $4 million, that puts us at 17. With the 25, we'd be around $42, $43 million, or 48. But it may go up. It may go up. You know, the previous years, I think it was like $24 million. So then we'd be okay. So I... But this is probably one of the things that's putting people that provide these essential services really in a bind when they don't have certainty as to what to anticipate and for planning purposes, all those things, right? So just again, and we can talk offline, but I just want some information historically where we've been because this is a tough one for me when we're not fully funding these. Yeah. So just to give you an idea, on 24, we're at 14, and 23, we're at 24, and 22, we're at 26, 21, we're at 19, 20, we're at 30. So our range is probably 14 to 30 million we'll get next year. I think it's going to be close to the 14, but... And we're waiting on kind of that federal fix that... Yeah. Basically, we're waiting... This right now, it's funded to where we're waiting for bad things to happen to people so that there can be a correct settlement. Yeah. It's a terrible way to fund things. So... Yes. Okay. Thank you. For book four. All right. We will head into book number five. You'll see a child welfare cost to continue on page 866. This is $6.4 million. This is for adoption subsidy and subsidized guardianship. We did have a supplemental this year that wasn't funded because we didn't need it. We were able to flex, but ongoing, those populations will continue to grow. So this is funding to sort of hopefully fund those to the growth we expect next year so we won't have to come back for our supplemental for the adoption subsidy and subsidized guardianship programs. In the supplemental, there was a supplemental for the QRTP or the basically qualified residential treatment programs. We were able... And that was just needed because the money wasn't in the right pot. So if you're looking at the supplemental to this one, the difference is we've got the adoption subsidy and subsidized guardianship in here. We don't need the QRTP because we just moved it between the non-IMD and IMD. On page 884 is a child abuse and neglect hotline or CAN. This is 10 additional staff for the hotline. They did an assessment of the current hotline on the needs for the hotline. And this is the CAN hotline. So where reports of child abuse and neglect are called in on what is needed for that hotline into operation to full effectiveness and make sure we're handling those calls quickly and getting them, not just handling them on the wait times, but getting them out to the field for quick action for the field. So this is 10 additional staff to help the hotline. So Pat, can I ask, what's the wait time look like now? How did we arrive at 10 FTE? Are we going to either clear up a backlog or a wait time? Tell me what's going on. Jump in. Come on up. Come on up. This is Kayla Uhliger. She's our acting director for Children's Division. Good morning, everyone. Kayla Uhliger, acting director for Children's Division. So we actually did work with Andrew Reese and the Show Me Excellence team for efficiency. And so the study was really about wait times and handle times, also a training nesting structure that allows for those staff to really be fully trained. So the 10 came from allowing for that to be the most efficient process for no turnover. So the current wait time, your question was, it's about five minutes with a 20 minute handle time. So they have to be able to process through the call. And it's really to get it out to the field more efficiently. They also provide support to the field and how they distribute those calls. And so thinking about how we distribute those calls out to the regions. The next is on page 899. This is for CD staff training, three staff, $252,000. What this is, we are underneath a performance improvement plan, our PIP with the feds. One of the things, the child welfare staff, their turnover rate is still 30%, 35% around that range. So one of the things we are falling short is, as you have such massive turnover, one of the things you need is efficient and effective training for that staff, we are falling short in that area. So not just hiring people, but getting them trained quickly and effectively. So then when we put them out in the field, they know how to do their job. So one of the things we identified is three additional staff to help train and deal with the turnover and child welfare. I'm going to be cut off pretty soon, so this will be my last question, I promise. Then I'll pass it over to Senator Fitzwater, because he has a lot of questions. So children's division, joking, all joking aside, this is another one that we've had a lot of struggles with over the years. And I probably should have asked this when the acting director was up before, but appreciate the efforts again, putting money into training, because it's hard to train these folks. These are some of the toughest jobs in the state. If we could just retain folks that are already in these jobs, obviously, that would be our priority. And so where are we in terms of staffing on children's division? Can you share how many vacancies we currently have? Where we stand today? Yep, turnover rate would be great. Sorry about that. I'm back. So in the last few years, we've made massive strives for the return of a rate. So currently, we're about 28%. And that's across all job classes. So for that's for the 1992 people we have, I can't tell you 8% turnover per year. Currently this last year, we were at 28%. But two years ago, we were about 41 42%. I mean, these are mind boggling numbers. So the national standard and child welfare is 20 to 40%. So across the entire country, 20 to 40% is that's, that's where everybody really is. So 28% for us from the 42%, we kind of got into the range. So sad, very sad for child welfare, in fact, and it explains a lot of our outcome issues, quite frankly. But the investment as we do these training pieces is to lower that 28% to get out of that 20 to 40. That's really the goal. Sure. Again, so if you're thinking out of, you know, every four people that are doing the work of working with people who are in the kids minors who are in the most vulnerable situations of their lives, we're losing one out of every four every year. And so asking here for two additional FTS, I don't think is in this obviously is an ask of the committee isn't isn't too much to ask that we have good people, they're training people so that hopefully they can stay in these jobs and help kids who need it the most. Yeah, we've had and we've had a lot of investment over time to continue to lower that number, which is we've seen from the generosity of those investments. We've seen that 42 go to 28. So I think it's working to improve our retention, as we go down. And thinking about how that training on the upfront really allows for the right people to get in and give them the quality, quality training that they need to provide good service. Well, just a brief comment. You know, I'm so thankful for all of those whobeen able to stick it out in children's division. This is often a thankless task and people are truly tasked with I think the hardest work in state government. So thank you for all those who have have been able to stick it out and serve our kids. And hopefully we'll able to do a little bit more here to make your job just a little bit easier. We appreciate that. Thank you. And to answer your question, our current vacancies for children's division is 80 of the staff are vacant. So 8080 positions out of around 2000. And, and another thing on the turnover, the governor did recommend an additional 1% on top of the time of service. So they do recognize the need to try to help maintain staff there. And I think the time of service will help, you know, so they do have a ladder. So we do have a ladder within the children's division, but then they're going to kind of be able to also as their years of service get longer, they'll see some additional income coming into them. So I think the time of service NDI, in addition to the 1%, and they were given an additional 10%, I think last year, two years ago. So I think there's been a lot of investment in staff and the child welfare by by this body in the past years. I wanted to ask his mentorship also a part of this when I hear people talk about younger employees today that they need that disdain about any type of job. Absolutely. And in our world, we call it on the job training or on the job coaching. And it's an essential component of where most of the training kind of is in that. And that's included in the training request. And the training structure is how we build that into our staff, staff work as a standard standard operating procedure. And you try to make sure they're not grumpy people like me. They're mentors. You have to? Yes, sir. Yeah, I was gonna ask the same question to make sure no one's grumpy like Senator black. Um, is there anything that the legislature can do? Or? Clearly, this committee can focus on to help in terms of increasing staffing and retaining staff. Um, again, I think the pay plan goes a long way. You know, we did get additional staff and additional case management. This body did grant us additional staff at the last year, last couple of years, and additional contracted case management take a lot of load off our workers and give us more flexibility. So you know, nothing I can think of off the top of my head over what we're kind of asking here today, we are looking at like the the and we'll get to that the you know, the the case management system, we're going to take a look at that and try to get something out there that's very effective. And that will help staff too. So we're not working in, again, an 80s or 90s model for case management. Yeah, thanks for that. And I'd like for my office to be a resource to help you all find a solution. And I'm confident other members of the committee would be like to be a part of that as well. So we can stay engaged and let us know how we can be supportive to the department. That'd be great. Your continued investment means a lot to the field, for what you you referenced, and then feeling underappreciated, not always seen in our communities, that investment is a big deal for them. And we really appreciate all the you continuing to invest for us on the on the monetary side, but a lot of the investments that you make into our systems make a big deal to the frontline. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right, next section is on page. I see that in 2024, you contracted with change and innovation for $6 million. And this year, to date, it's been about 5 million. Can you tell me what what that is exactly? And what what what do we get for that? So the change in innovation, their contractor, we've worked with them, there was a new decision item a couple years ago in the child welfare realm of around $5 million. Currently, we have an NDI and FSD for around 4 million, along with a supplemental this year. What that is, is they are consultants that come in and help us. In the case of children's division, they sort of upgraded the management up there, we were having problems in St. Louis City. So they work with the management in St. Louis City, on the can hotlines, we were way behind there, they came in, help make some recommendations help with mentoring management and kind of overseeing it. And I think our hotlines went from where they go, we had a backlog of almost 8000 to zero. And so they they significantly decreased the backlog, they helped our in processing time decreased open days on open reports, significant massive improvements on on where we did on on the front facing for what clients receive, but also for the staff to improve on stability and retention. When you have that kind of hanging over your head, we've seen all of those things improve with the work that they did. So how did that work exactly? So change innovations did some very specific process mapping to figure out where we were having the most significant issues within those specific pieces of the work. And then we did specific process assignments to help decrease the backlog, but also manage the front end at the same time. So burning the candle from both ends with specific targeted focus in that area. But then changing the ongoing process to ensure you don't go back there, because often that's what happens is we fix a backlog, but we don't fix the front end process to make sure that we're not going back there. So they helped with some very specific process improvements. Where are they located? Change innovations. So they're actually historically, Missouri State Public Servants, the owner Ken is from in bill bought originally came from state government and Missouri and then took their work out to other states to help with SNAP and child welfare. And so I think they did about 20 states before they ever came back to their home state in Missouri. So if I need more information, I'll just get with you. Yeah, we can absolutely provide some more information. One question if they were 8000 behind. So how what's the timeframe? How far were some of these made before they were dealt with? I can provide more information about the backlog work because we have a detailed report on it to give you more concrete information about that. Okay, thank you. So the next section is page 903 health information specialists. These are six FTE. So we did have some litigation around psychotropic medications in the child welfare realm. So what these six staff do is adding in to our current staffing to help oversee sort of the the management of those medications with those child children that are in foster care that need some of the psychotropic medications. Next is page 907 bachelor social work program. So to help sort of recruit within we have out there we hire several staff called case aid so they don't have the education be a social worker. They can't do the full blown case management a social worker do does but they do have a love for the system and for child welfare and helping the kids. What this is is a tuition reimbursement program. So those staff that we already have on are able to recruit, we can send them through college. This is a twin tuition reimbursement and exchange for them working for us. The next is a new decision item of $250,000 gr. This is the care portal we currently spend about $500,000 on this what the care portal is. It's a care sharing technology based platform that brings the needs of children and their families with some community providers, local churches, local community providers to help match up their needs to what can be provided in the local community. The families first on page 1024. This is transitioning funding. It was $10 million we have until September of or December of 2025 to spend this money. We have a plan around this as that x that includes things like building up community settings, res treatment facilities to help them become our Buddha, excuse me, becoming qrt PS. It is with the helping build more therapeutic foster care homes, things like that, to help really place the kids in the lowest level setting possible along with looking at prevention items and building up prevention providers that could eventually become for eligible so they'll get 5050 match if they meet certain criteria. And that is it for book number five of a book number six. There's one NDI in here are actually a couple. I gotta get to the my tags. Yeah, I need the qrtp section. Yeah, I've got a, if I can find my tabs back, there's too many tabs, the qrtp section. I'd be in the previous book. In the qrtp section, there's two sections called IMD and non IMD. I can find it back in flex request form. It's 1483.OK. Oh, here it is. OK. So 1053. There's my tabs. They're covered by my paper. So if you look at 1053 in that section, just to point out a major change, it's actually a page atop of 1056. We did have a supplemental. What you're going to see is a transfer in here of around $6 million. And that comes from page of the QRTP IMD. So we transferred money out of the QRT IMD of $6.1 million to the QRTP non-IMD. The reason was is these got separated out between the two. We did a new assessment last spring. And this is where we promised the providers we'd come back and take a look at it again. And so we had a lot of providers move from IMD, which we don't get the federal Medicaid on to non-IMD. So it's a good thing. But we just didn't have the money in the right pot, so we had to switch between them. All right. Now page 6 of 8. Page 1191, Child Abuse and Grant. We do have additional child CAN grant funding that gets allocated out by the CAN board. And this is a request of $900,000 federal for them to hand out grants for child abuse and neglect prevention, investigation, prosecution, and other type of activities out in the local communities. All right. So the last in the book, 6 of 8, before we bring Todd Richardson up, is on page 1216. This is 20 additional staff for the Division of Youth Services, and $1.2 million, $1.1 million total. Our sense is the number of commitments they have has been steadily going up over the last couple of years. We did see a big decrease around COVID. They dropped. We did shutter several facilities, and we did take some staff cuts three or four years ago in the Division of Youth Services. But now we're slowly seeing that trend go back up in the juvenile justice realm, and so additional staff are needed to maintain the current beds and to open up new beds. And also, you had raised the age a couple years, where it raised the number of commitments at DYSC. So is there a plan to open any of those six facilities that have been closed? I'll bring Scott Odom up. Yeah. Scott Odom, Director of Youth Services. At present, there's not a plan to reopen. These would be staff that would allow us to maximize the space within existing facilities. We have enough beds in existing facilities, if we have the staffing to meet the needs currently. That's going to be a first step. What that's going to look like a year or two from now with trends the way they are, I'm not certain about that. And the existing facilities were shuttered for a number of reasons. One is the difficulty to staff in the locations that they're in and the tight labor market. So one of the things that's going to have to be considered moving forward is the positioning of new locations, if those are required. At present, I think we would do great in the next year if we can bring three or four more groups within the existing facilities online, if we can hire and train and get those moving. That's a first step, and that's a big lift. So to open new facilities would be the next step, if the census continues to grow. Yeah. Mr. Chair, thank you. How much does liability come into the equation for some of these groups wanting to actually take some of these kids? So that's probably more around the child welfare, residential treatment. So these are state-owned facilities, so it's a state liability. We've been hearing, or I know I've been hearing quite a bit about that around res treatment. I've talked to the director about it, too. Obviously an important issue for taking care of some of these kids. Yeah. And a good point is that with our state-operated facilities, we do have the state liability, and our providers do take on that liability for some of these same types of children in the child welfare realm. Just a follow-up to that, do we have some of these youth who are being placed out of state because we can't place them here in Missouri? Youth committed to the Division of Youth Services have all remained in Missouri, with the exception of an occasional youth that may go across a state line to Kansas because of, for instance, Kaw Valley is a provider that has state line sort of provision of services, and they have, you know, a building that may be across the border. That's a rare occurrence. Okay. But most of them are staying here. Yeah. Our kids are all remaining in Missouri. Okay. In the child welfare realm, there's around 85 kids. So on the res treatment, so on the child welfare realm, the kids placed with us, there's around 85. 85 that are placed out of state? Yes. Yes. Okay. And then how much, again, just follow-up offline, just curious about how much we end up having to pay for, again, some of our kids who are, again, our highest risk, most vulnerable, et cetera, et cetera, but because we're not able to take care of them here at home, we have to place them out of state, which I can't even begin to fathom how difficult that has to be for those kids. Yeah. We can get that number for you. Yep. Thank you. Yep. Senator Rice. So are these, good morning, I'm sorry. Good morning. So are this child welfare, is that the same as the kids we have in Child Protective Services? Yeah. So, yes, those are the Child Welfare's Child Protection, what this is, what Scott is, the Division of Youth Services. So that's juvenile justice, deep end, delinquency, not, these are separate pools of young people. Separate pools of young people. Yeah. So the kids that Child Protective Services that get taken from their parents and they get put into the system, where is, is that, is that under this division? No. No. No. And have we gotten to that part yet? Yeah. That's the one we just previously spoke about on the Children's Division with additional staff training and those components. Okay. And how many kids do we have in Child Protective Services? Right now, around 11,000. And how many agencies are, because I know these are not state agencies, right? We put these in privately. Foster homes and res treatment. I don't have that number off the top of my head, but we can get that number for you, how many different res treatment homes and foster homes there are. And the other question is, I know that these homes that we put them in are not equipped to handle children with mental health issues. So how are we addressing that? So one of the things we did with the help from this committee a couple years ago was what set up the more robust therapeutic foster home. So we have the normal foster homes and then here there's a section called therapeutic foster homes. What that is, is parents who are dedicated to just taking care of that child so they don't have a job outside of the home. We increased the rates for that and with some of the family first funding, what I was trying to say a while ago before I bumbled the words, is some of that family first transition money was to help try to set up more of those homes. Because it's difficult to recruit parents to do nothing but take care of a child coming in, as you say, with severe mental health needs. So it's a higher rate. We worked with the res treatment agencies to help do a step down from the res treatment agencies where a lot of these kids are placed until, like you said, you have a home to go to that can handle the severe mental health issues. Because I know that some parents, you know, when the children run away because they have different mental health issues and then they get taken away from the parents but that parent is working and have other children. How are we, we don't address that and how are we addressing the number of children that's running away because it looks like they'll have a warrant, a KPS, but we're not trying to find them. And I think there's been some activities. Hi, I'm Frank Tennant, I'm the director of STAT, which is the State Technical Assistance Team. We are a law enforcement agency within the umbrella of Department of Social Services. Basically, we work criminal investigations of anything that involves a child victim. One of the other ancillary services that we do do is we try to locate the children that are missing from state care. We've been very successful since we got involved in this project. We have our fingers in the safe return of about 600 kids a year that run. Now I will tell you we're law enforcement, we can't, we can find them, we can get them back but sometimes they repeat, they run again. But we've been very successful getting those kids back in safe care. Today, 50, I monitor this every day. I get a list from Children's Division at three, 20 something every morning. I monitor, today there's 54 missing children. Out of 11,000, I don't want to minimize that because these are dire situations but 54 out of 11,000 is not bad. So are we partnering with law enforcement because I understand, you know, I stumbled up on involvement in one of these cases that you're talking about and my understanding was that, you know, these girls are being trafficked but they're also using social media at these private facilities or phones and they're, somebody's picking them up and they're running so there's no security evidently at the facilities where they are because they just leave. Yes, ma'am. I'm not involved in that part of it but when they do leave, we use every resource. I have 18 cops spread out all over the state. I have a total staff of 33 and a half and we don't have a half a person. We have a doctor that's a part-time employee. But we work hand in hand with local, state, and federal law enforcement. Many of my staff are task force and sworn as federal agents as well as state law enforcement officers. We work those criminal investigations with them. We have a special set of skills.Many of us are retired homicide cops, retired children cops that did juvenile work, so we focus specifically on those cases. And we're pretty good at putting those predators away. Thank you. Thank you. We got a lot to get to, but I need to have a conversation offline about the, you know, when kids go missing, police are called, but the social services, the police can't take the people into custody because they're in Child Protective Services, and those people are not answering the phone on off times, so I need to have a conversation in reference to that. Thank you. Do you have any idea how many out of the 54 that are missing right now are recidivism? How many of them have run before? Do you keep track of that? We do. We do. I can tell you that we maintain a list of children that are repeat offenders. I can tell you that I have one 16-year-old that's run 37 times. So this morning, when I looked at the list, there was a new run that has a name that's very familiar that's run multiple times before. We use our couple civilian employees that gather, that are in social media, that gather information that we can push back to local law enforcement, to the feds, to social service staff and children's division, or worst scenario, I get out from behind my desk and I go put leather on the street and get a kid back in custody. So there are multiple runs. Senator May. I'm sorry. But the multiple runs is because that child has a mental health thing that is not being addressed in the home where Child Protective Services has placed them. So they have a, I know that's not your area, but that's their area. And they have a mental health issue that's not being addressed. So they keep running because that's their mental health thing that's going on. And they're aware of it. But there's, we're not addressing that. So I want to figure out how we manage that and figure that out. I'm glad to talk to you offline as well, Senator May. So yeah, I just, I want to real real and we'll move on, we'll briefly make this point. And I appreciate the fact that you, you know, tried to say not to diminish this, but out of 11,054 is not too bad. One's too many. Right. And I appreciate the work that you and your team does. My motto is every kid counts. And a lot of people have heard that I think that's, I think that's probably I hope I speak for the committee. I think that's where we are too. So thank you. All right. And we'll follow up and see how many we'll get how many of those 54 are repeat for you. Right. With that, I think we're going to turn over to Todd. Yes. Get all my stuff out of his way. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, for the record, Todd Richardson, director of Mo Health Net. I'm going to pick up on page 1224. This is the beginning of book seven, with the NDI for our cost to continue. As Director Luebbering already mentioned, there are F map changes that you'll see throughout our budget. And just as a point of reference, most of the changes between the department request and gov rec that you're going to see in the budget are, as always, related to the fact that when gov rec happens, there is a little better universe of data on which we can base our estimates. Total request for the supplemental is $200 million of GR and 1.8 billion overall. The reasons and the major categories for those changes can be found on 1227. Mr. Chair. Really quick, because it's maybe one of the parts of the Medicaid budget I can kind of wrap my mind around a little bit, the pharmacy line. And I always try to make this point because it blows my mind. You are self-managing the pharmacy line, which means that your pharmacy director, who's an incredibly impressive individual, is going out and negotiating rebates. There's no pharmacy benefit manager, third party that is in between you and manufacturers. And for the last several years, you've had basically flat spending on pharmacy. And it feels like in every other industry outside of Medicaid, it's going up. You'd think you'd see those costs to continue, those costs for pharmacy going up in Medicaid, if anywhere, that that would be the place where you'd see crazy inflated costs. Just really quick, I'm sorry I'm bringing this up, but it's a point worth mentioning that how do you keep your costs flat when everybody else is seeing massive increases in pharmacy? Yeah. Senator, thanks for the question. First of all, I think our pharmacy team does an incredible job at maximizing and utilizing the tools available to a Medicaid agency. And our primary tool is our ability to add things or not add things to our preferred drug list. We don't have a true formulary the way, say, the state employee health plan can, but we can put things in preferred status. And that gives us the ability to go to manufacturers and negotiate supplemental rebates and to make smart coverage decisions based on our ability to capture the rebate and also the efficacy of the drugs for our patients. So despite the fact that enrollment in the program has gone up significantly because of Medicaid expansion, and despite the fact that there are really expensive new drugs that have come on the market, we have been, as you said, able to keep the program spending overall, the net spending to the state, fairly flat. Now you're going to see some NDIs here for some increases, but if you look at our cost to continue, last year lapsing, and this is on 1231, lapsing almost $70 million of what you guys appropriated last year for pharmacy. That's wild to me in the pharmacy line. That's a direct result of enrollment coming down, but also our folks doing a really good job managing the program. Thank you, Derek. All right. Move on to page 1235. This is the NDI for our managed care actuarial increase. We are required to set our managed care rates in an actuarially sound manner. This is the NDI to do this. We employ Mercer to help us with that actuarial analysis. The total request here is $317 million. That is based on a 6.2% increase. I will say that this number is built on some uncertainty with some federal law changes specifically related to CCBHOs. That doesn't happen. I would anticipate that this actual number is less, and probably meaningfully less, than that 6.2% number. Next, the NDI for our pharmacy PMPM, as Senator Fitzwater and I were just discussing, we don't actually pay our pharmacy benefits on a per-member, per-month basis, but we do estimate the cost based on a per-member, per-month basis. This is for our specialty drug spend, and specialty drug in our lexicon means anything over $600 a month in cost. Because of some new drugs coming on the market, and some of those are listed in the book here, the request is for $78 million, all funds. Next is the other side of that coin, which is the non-specialty drugs, so these are anything that cost less than $600 a month. This is built on a trend rate of about 3.5%. Total request here is $22 million. Next on page 1256, this is an IGT, so no general revenue dollars. IGT is Intergovernmental Transfer from DMH to help draw down funds associated with providing care for our adult expansion population. Next on page 1268, this is an NDI for ongoing funding for the implementation of diagnosis related groups as our inpatient hospital care payment methodology. We had these dollars in the budget last year, but they were one-time. This is actually for ongoing help through the implementation and go-live of that new payment methodology. Million dollars at a 50-50 match rate. Next I'm going to move all the way over to 1297. This is the NDI for our MMIS operational costs. The next several sections of NDIs are related to our MMIS system. MMIS is the Medicaid Management and Information Systems. It's not one system. It's actually a combination of systems, systems that do everything from processing our prior authorization to actually processing and making payments to providers. The NDI that you got listed on 1297 are for planned contractual increases with the existing vendors that we have. Next on page 1300, this is the federal pickup. We had less in federal authority than we actually needed last year. No GR associated with this request, but $30 million of all funds. Next on page 1308. Senator Crawford. Just to back up for a second, Todd. The prior authorization, how many people do you have working on just prior authorization? Do you know? Senator, I have to get the number back to you because we use a combination of state staff but also vendor support for that prior authorization. I will say we do less of that now than we used to because we went through a process and in fact still going through it on a few items where we evaluate things. If we approve them 98% of the time on the prior authorization, then do we really need the prior authorization to begin with? I'm glad you're making that point. We're working on that issue in another committee. We have found that we can remove that prior authorization and we don't see a corresponding explosion in utilization. In other words, people finding out that we no longer require it and then taking advantage of that. We're going to continue to make those kinds of decisions when we think they make sense and allow our team and our vendors to do that.our vendor teams to focus on the things that actually do need some pretty good scrutiny. I like what you're saying, and I appreciate that. So you keep going back to kind of monitor to make sure that you're not being taken advantage of. We do. I'd really like to talk to you kind of about how you're working that, because I want to try to relate it to the real world, if you will. So I appreciate that. Be happy to do that. Thank you. OK, I'm on page 1302. This is our NDI for our MMIS Project Management Office. We are in the process of some fairly significant overhauls of our existing systems, thanks to the support that you all have offered. And this supports vendor personnel to help us manage these projects. We are going to be taking on some of the most significant modernization of our MMIS systems that we've had in the state's history, namely our pharmacy system and then eventually our core claims processing system. So this is vendor support to stand up a project management office. The request is $3 million of all funds. Next NDI is on 1306. This is for enhancements to our MMIS system. Pretty good description of what those needs are on 1307. $15 million all funds. Page 1310, the MMIS interoperability rule. The interoperability rule is a federal requirement that our data and our systems be interoperable. That is going to take some additional configuration and work. Fortunately, the requirement does come with a 90-10 match rate on the fund. So $400,000 of GR, $4 million of all funds. Page 1315, this is an NDI for a security risk assessment. About every three years, we like to do a comprehensive third-party security risk assessment of our Medicaid systems. That is because we have a lot of protected health information and sensitive data. $9 million is the request. And I think the last time we did it was exactly three years ago. OK. Happy to answer any questions about the cores that are in the next several pages, because they are some significant pieces of our budget. But our next NDI is all the way on 1401. And Mr. Chairman, this will be your favorite NDI of the day, because we have zeroed it out in GovRec, and we no longer need any funding there. Page 1405, this is an NDI for ABA services that are offered now in our CCBHOs. That was thanks to a change the General Assembly added last year that made ABA therapy available in our CCBHOs. $5 million is the total request here. Page 1415 is the NDI for a rate increase for our PACE program. PACE is Program for All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly. It's a program we're really excited about. It has not had quite the uptake that we had hoped by this point, but it is a program that's growing now with nearly 100 Missourians in the program at three different sites, Springfield, Kansas City, and St. Louis. We pay these providers based on what we call an AWOP rate, or the amount that otherwise would have been paid. So as we do that annual analysis, we update the rate, and this is the NDI associated with that annual update. Mr. Chair. Hi, Mr. Speaker. Thank you for being here. Good morning, Senator. On the reimbursement that you're doing, is that based on our reimbursement rate, or I know we've had some conversations about bringing our Medicaid reimbursements to the same rate as Medicare. So how does that work? In the PACE program, what we look at to set that rate is we look at the amount that we otherwise would have paid. So we pay this on a per member basis, so we give that facility all of the money associated with what we think that care would have cost in a given month. So this rate we're talking about here is tied to our existing Medicaid rates. We have engaged in a process over the last several years, and thanks to the General Assembly's help, to realign our provider rates to some percentage of Medicare. And so in the case of our outpatient hospital services, it's a Medicare-based fee schedule. It pays about the same rate, a little bit less than what Medicare would pay. And our provider rates, depending on the type, could range from 100% of Medicare for some services to about 75% of Medicare for most. Thank you. Moving on to page 1433, this is the NDI for our premium increase for Medicare premiums that we actually pay for participants. It's a great deal for the state to actually buy those premiums when appropriate. So as those premiums go up every year, our cost to pay them goes up. Next, and I believe this is the final in book seven, this is the NDI for our nursing facility value-based payment rebase. As we have raised our nursing facility rates, we now have a value-based component. This NDI will support keeping that value-based payment at the same percentage level. So as the regular base rates have gone up, we need to raise the amount of dollars that we're putting in the BBP to make sure that that incentive doesn't get watered down relative to the rates. And that is all for book seven. Thank you. Moving on to page 1484, this is an NDI for hospice rate increase. Hospice rate increase rates are set pursuant to one of four predetermined levels. And per federal rules, have to be adjusted. The rate increase here is $395,000, or a 2.5% increase. Next, on page 1495, this is our non-emergency medical transportation program. Similar to our managed care program, we pay this contract on a per member per month basis and have to set the rates in an actuarially sound manner. Total request here is $3 million of all funds. That equates to a 5.5% rate increase. Next is our managed care GMT. CORE is not one we're going to cover. We have, next on 1523, this is the GR pickup for managed care for one-time expenditure last year. As the budget was finalized last year, $336 million of general revenue of managed care funds were coded as one-time. Turns out we do need them again this year. So this is the GR pickup for those funds. Next, on page 1596, this is an NDI for our primary care health home program. This is a program that the state has been really proud of for a long time. We continue to be really proud of it. This allows an expansion of the care teams to include community health workers as a part of those care teams. We have seen pretty dramatic results from primary care health homes in terms of reducing unnecessary ER visits, better care management, better medication compliance. This is actually the first step in what we hope are a couple of steps in sort of making the primary care, taking the lessons we've learned from the primary care health home over the last 15 years and building upon it to make the program even more successful than it already is today. $10 million of all funds. Next, on 1651, this is an NDI for MoMAPs, specifically tied to the AEG population. We identified very, very, very late in the budget process last year that we probably didn't have enough authority. MoMAPs is a program that allows us to make supplemental physician's payments, principally to University Health in Kansas City and to the University of Missouri in Columbia. This is the dollars associated with the adult expansion group portion of that program. $32 million, all funds, no general revenue in this request. And Mr. Chairman, unless you just want me to cover the non-count funds and the rest of the stuff in the book, that is all the NDIs for book seven and eight. I don't think so. Any other questions for the director before we cut him loose? And Todd, I may have one quick question for you. And it's a little bit of a chicken and egg situation, but we've got, obviously, a new administration in DC, and there's a lot of talk about changes and reforms and cuts. And conversation has been, I think, percolating around Congress a little bit about changing the 90-10 match rate for those states who had not expanded Medicaid to the 138% poverty level, which, obviously, we fit into that. We've got a Supreme Court decision that says those folks are going to receive care and we're going to pay the bill. I mean, this goes back years and years, the conversation of if we expand to this population, yeah, the match rate's 90-10 right now. It's, I think, off the top of my head, it's a couple billion dollars worth of a population to the tune of, I think, each percentage decrease under the 90% match that we're getting from the feds right now would be somewhere between $25 and $30 million that the state is on the hook to pick up. I mean, are you guys, are you or is your office tracking what's going on in DC, what the conversation is, and what that may look like? Because just as the folks who are tasked with writing this budget, the possibility that maybe that match rate came down to something more similar to our overall Medicaid reimbursement rate, I don't think I'm out of line in saying that that number could be somewhere close to $750 million that the state could be on the hook for in making up the reimbursement difference to that expanded population.Yeah, Mr. Chairman, we are certainly watching very closely the proposed changes in Washington. Your math is very close to what the reality will be. If anything, it's probably a little under what the impact would be. So I think you can say $30 million to $35 million for every percent decrease. So if you went from 90-10 to 80-20, we'd be at $300 million to $350 million would be the necessary GR pickup. We don't know that that's going to happen, of course, and there are a range of other changes there, some, you know, that we would be pretty excited about the making in terms of giving the state more flexibility to make decisions and those kinds of things. But obviously, a change in our match rate is going to present, you know, a challenge that we're going to have to work through. Yeah. I just wanted to add one thing to that is that there's a number of changes, and so we have to plan for everything that could possibly happen at the federal level, which is difficult to do. One of the things that they talk about are block grants. And when we talk about block grants, we want to talk about it in terms of the lowest level of risk is at current levels, because then there would not be any punishment or holdback for the FRA that we currently get. And then the other piece of that is if you get a block grant, we really have to advocate for the total control of the Medicaid regulations at the state level, because if we are tied into the percentage of poverty level and the different requirements at the federal level, but given the responsibility of the budget, I think that's kind of our talking points with our federal leadership. It's really, it's one of those things, like I said, we don't have to get into it too much, but I did want to at least put it on the radar of the committee that, you know, when people talk about changes at the federal level coming down to us, has pretty significant implications in what we're able to do here and what we're able to fund. And Director Back is exactly right. I mean, if the flexibility and some of that comes with true flexibility, those are things that I think as a state we would wholeheartedly embrace and would be an exciting opportunity for us to have. But that's also got to come with the same level of financial commitment. If not, it's going to be a significant challenge for us and for you all to figure out how to make the budget work. Yeah. Senator Williams. Thanks. Thank you. One more quick question. If you can just keep us in the loop and Director, let us know kind of what's happening on your end and what you hear real time so we can know what to kind of express to concerned citizens and constituents. The other thing I would say too is, and Todd, you know, you and I have talked about this quite a bit over the years, is the federally qualified health centers. If we can kind of understand what that ecosystem looks like as well from a state perspective, that would be helpful for me. One of the most important provider types for Missouri Medicaid and will continue to be. So we work really closely with them. The primary care health home program I was mentioning before, it's not exclusively an FQHC program, but I think all of our FQHCs participate in that program. And so we're always looking for ways to help our FQHC partners where we can. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Director. Acting Director. Thanks. Let's take five minutes before we get started on NODOT. All right, we'll go ahead and get started on NODOT. Ready? So Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, I just want to make a couple of brief comments before we get into it. Certainly our direction is we want to deliver the program. We've been blessed with some funding increases over the last five years, and especially with the legislatively designated program that you all did, that delivering that program is of the utmost importance. The other thing that we're really focused on is trying to restore the capability of our operations team. Over the last decade, we've lost literally millions of hours of labor hours. And that really translates into things that we're just not getting done on the roadways. I call them the windshield issues because we prioritize the safety and issues that are in front of us. And so we're really working to try to restore that capability and then definitely make sure that we do that safely for our folks and for the people that are driving on the road. We've lost over 900 folks on the roadways last year, which is really kind of alarming. We have a trend that is moving in the right direction, but really pretty slowly, and then we want to make sure that we're being customer focused in the work that we do. With that, I'd take any questions or we'll move into the  Senator Hudson. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you all for being here, and sorry to jump in this quick, but I've got a meeting coming up. I might have to duck out early, and I do have a few questions that I'd like to ask before we get started. I want to talk to you about a plane that  it's my understanding that MoDOT has a plane that is used for commissioners to have transportation. How often is that used? We have flight logs. We co-own that plane with the Department of Conservation. We actually have two planes. We have one single engine that we use for runway inspection. Part of our responsibility is to oversee the commercial general aviation airports, and then we have a twin-engine plane that we use mostly for transportation, and we share that with conservation. We can get you the flight logs of how much it's used. Is it the twin-engine plane, then, that commissioners are using for transportation? That's one of the things we use it for, yes. Do you know what the expense of that is, what that's costing the taxpayer? Yeah, we can provide that. Okay. I would very much appreciate that. And if any road money is being used to pay for that plane, any information you can get me on that? Certainly. The road fund is paying for that. The road fund is paying for that plane. Definitely. Okay. The other thing I wanted to ask you about is, does MoDOT have any DEI initiatives in place? We do not. Are you committed to following through on Governor Kehoe's  you don't have any right now, but you're committed in going forward to be consistent with Governor Kehoe's promise to not have DEI in state government? Yes, definitely. Okay. Thank you. Those are my questions. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I'll just remind you, when we've got questions from the committee, make sure you get that to  the answers, the responses, the flight logs specific to Senator Hudson's question. Don't send it to all of us. Send it to our staff. Adam Koningsfeld downstairs, and they'll get it to everybody on the committee. Everybody's got the same info. Okay. Senator Beene. So when you brought up the road fund, can you talk me through real quick, what exactly is the road fund used, and how is it used? Yeah, that's a big question. Certainly it is  you know, it's a constitutionally protected fund that is funded through the combination of the state fuel tax, the sales tax on automobiles, the license fees, and then, of course, the federal funds that come in through the federal government. And it is dedicated to road and bridge work. So everything  you know, the design, construction, maintenance, and operation of the state highway system is where that fund  those funds have to be spent. So a question I would have is, last year when we passed in the budget for 57, 60 million of that came out of GR, and then 90 million out of the road fund. Will that 90 million be used for that project out of the road fund? It's my understanding that the 90 million was to make the space to be able to leverage federal funds and get grants. We have not been successful to date, but I think as we talked the other day, I think there probably is better opportunities with how  we're still uncertain about some of the things at the federal level, but certainly I think Missouri is better positioned now than we were a year ago. I hope you understand that when Governor Parson came to Poplar Bluff and signed the bill, the budget bill, and announced 150 million, as did Lieutenant Governor.now Governor Kehoe, as did the Appropriations Chair Huff, and when Popper Bluff is, you know, in that area, it's going, well, where's our 90 million? Because they put in 18 million just on that project alone, themselves, whereas I believe on the north side, they put in 31 or 32 million dollars. So, you know, it's just frustrating for me how we have this state-run road fund that I believe is at 1.4 billion currently. Yeah, I'd say it's close. Why are we not spending that seven to 8% out of that that the House approved, the Senate approved, the Governor signed? I mean, can you answer that question? Well, there are commitments against that, so the road fund has a balance, but of course, you know, we make commitments against that money every year to the tune of, you know, a billion and a half in our normal operations, and then in the, of course, the legislatively-designated projects have made another commitment, that that money gets transferred into the road fund, so there are commitments against that money. There's no I-70 commitments against that money, is there? Well, the mechanism is, once we award a project, that general revenue gets transferred into the road fund, and then we make the commitment against it. Yeah, the general revenue gets transferred into the road fund. That's right. We're not obligating the 1.4 billion dollars sitting in the road fund currently on I-70. No. That's the answer to your question. The other answer to your question, Senator Bain, is no. The 90 million out of the road fund that was designated for Highway 57 over there in your neighborhood isn't currently coming out of the road fund, right? That's right, that's right. Even though- You might wanna, I don't know, I'd probably visit with that guy on the second floor about that. Okay. Well, actually, it's pretty frustrating when the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and you make the announcement of 150 million, not 60 million. Yeah, but I think the real synopsis here is that we can say that, and we can appropriate the money, and we can have a big event down there with the former Governor, the current Governor, yourself, a number of other elected folks, community people, and then MoDOT can say, well, we're not gonna do that. Frustrating. Yep. Any other questions from the committee before we get started on this budget? Senator May. Mine is such a simple question. So, 54, that little small stretch from Kingdom City to the Capitol, I mean, to, yeah, to the Capitol. Yes. That's part of MoDOT's, right? And so, I know that it's such a, what, 20 minute, maybe a 30 minute stretch, but there are no mile markers, like numbers or anything, because if you stop, if you get stopped, stalled, flat tire, you're in the middle of there, and you actually don't know where you are. So, you're calling, and you're trying to get help, but there's like no marker to say, okay, I'm at, you know, like normally on the highway, I can say, because we got those exit numbers, 213, you know, I'm east and west of this number, but is there any way we can like figure out a system or something? Because, you know, I was one of those people. We put the mile markers on the interstates. We don't put them on the other expressways in the state. The exits do have mile markers on them. Yeah, but. That would get pretty expensive to do, because we have many, many, many miles of expressway that are similar to 54. Mm, so if somebody's just out there, they just out there, and you just have to drive the whole expressway to find them. Or know where the next exit is. But you wouldn't, though, because they're so far in between on 54. If you pass one, you get me? So, you're just stuck. Okay, thank you. Okay, second question. Whose district is that? Whose district is that? Yeah, that's my district. Director, you wanna get started? Yep. Let me introduce Brenda Morris, our chief financial officer. She can run the numbers. Good morning. Brenda Morris, chief financial officer. We will start on page 13. The department requested 155 million. The governor recommended 127.2 million. These are our state road fund increases. I did provide a spreadsheet to the committee that breaks out what is in those amounts, and what was recommended, and what was not. And I will go very quickly over that, if that's okay. Go for it. All right, so, the governor did not recommend the pay plan that he has recommended for other departments. Because didn't you guys do your own pay plan a couple years ago? Correct, we requested 13. To the tune of 50 some million dollars? No, we requested 13.6 million. The governor recommended 12.2. The difference between those two amounts is that the retirement contribution rate is dropping from 52% to 37%, and so they reduced the fringe benefit component. This plan, similar to the governor's plan, is about retaining and hiring employees, and has a component that adjusts salaries for market rates, and moves employees through ranges based upon tenure. The next item, we requested 10 additional positions for administration. We requested 1.5. The governor recommended 435,000, and recommended three positions. Those three positions are to help, or to do administrative tasks on the Improve I-70 program. So when we said I-70 was a shovel-ready project, we still need three additional people to help oversee that project? Yeah, we've got a team of about 30 people that are working on that project. I mean, a project of that size, it's pretty neat. So now we're gonna have 33 people working on that? Yeah, I don't know if those are the exact numbers. I think the goal was to get, 30 was what we needed. So I think, right now. So then what are the three FTEs for the Improvement of I-70 program? I mean, they're basically the people that keep track of the money, make sure we're getting the federal things taken care of. We don't have that covered under the 30 people, Ed, that are doing that now? No. Okay. Go ahead, Brenda. Okay, the department requested 261,002 positions for program delivery, that is the PS and fringe benefit. The department requests, or the governor recommended 119,000. He only recommended one of those positions. The, for safety and ops, the department requested 2.5 million and 18 positions. These are needed for safety, or excuse me, they're needed predominantly for the safety and emergency management division for training purposes. The governor did not recommend this item. The department requested 22.8 million and 253 positions. These are the boots on the ground, the maintenance workers and equipment technicians. The governor recommended 8.2 million and recommended 100 of those positions. 90 would be for maintenance, 10 would be equipment technicians. The department requested 3.6 million and 26 positions for the program delivery because of the larger construction program. The governor recommended 1.6 million and recommended 13 positions. The department requested 1.6 million as an increase for the retiree medical. The governor recommended 1.6 million. The department requested 22.5 million for various roadside contracts and seal coats on low volume or minor roads on the state system. The governor recommended the same. The department requested 3.8 million for non-fleet equipment. These are things like tow plows, mowers, that type of thing. The governor recommended the same. The department requested 4.8 million or 4.9 for asphalt and chip ceiling repairs. The governor recommended the same. The department requested, under safety and operations, 8.3 million for traffic supplies. The governor recommended the same. The department requested 30 million for contractor payments. The governor recommended the same. The department requested just under 25 million for debt service payments. The governor has recommended the same. For fleet facilities and information systems, the department requested 15 million. This is for upgrades to two separate mechanical system projects. The governor only recommended one of those, which is 9 million, and that's to replace and modernize the mechanical systems at the materials lab here in Jefferson City. The next page. All right, can I ask, I gotta ask a question here. So, I assume that the 127, 280, 490 is all out of the road fund? That is correct. These are all state road fund increases. Right, right. So, my confusion, I guess, here, is how the executive has authority to direct the increases in the road fund, but the legislature does not. Well, I think what we do with the budget is we look at the 10-year financial forecast because we don't get money from anywhere but those three sources, with the exception of recently with general revenue. And we look at what the needs are and present a budget to the commission that falls within those boundaries. And then we bring that to the governor's office and then to you. Yeah, but the road fund.constitutionally stands appropriated right? It does. So what authority does the executive have over the utilization of those funds? Is this just a courtesy that the department is bringing you know to the Commission and then to the executive? I don't believe. Because I don't believe the legislature gets that courtesy. Well I don't believe that certainly. You don't believe which part? The fact that it's a courtesy. We've worked. Can't you can't you utilize the road funds however you see fit and however the Commission signs off on? I mean the executive doesn't have any authority over the road fund does he? I guess technically no. No it's constitutionally appropriate. It's constitutionally appropriated. So if the Commission adopts a budget and you follow through with a budget from what I can tell the legislature or the executive has no authority to direct those funds in any way. But I think. Tell me where I'm wrong. Technically you're correct. There we go. Okay. All right. Let's move. All right. Next page is page 67. The department requested 145,000. The governor recommended 137,000. This is the market plan for our other funds mainly for multimodal and highway safety. The difference is the reduction for the retirement contribution rate. We have only one core reallocation and that can be seen on page 89. We need to move $10,000 of retirement to the medical for the state transportation fund and that is based upon historical expenditures. The next page is page 183. So there's we have several one times that are included. I can go through them very briefly. So the first one is for the I-44 environmental study. The department requested 19.7 million. The governor recommended the same. The next one is for the. So Brenda just so I'm clear we can't use the road fund for a study? We have to use general revenue or could we technically use the 1.4 billion dollars of road fund for the study? So we have four billion dollars worth of active contracts. So there are commitments against that 1.4 billion. The state road fund can be used for environmental studies but this this amount was appropriated in the past for this purpose. Next page is page 191. You're right. This is for the I-55 outer service road. The department requested 11.7. The governor recommended the same. The next page is page 204. This is for our Cameron BB project. The department requested a million. The governor recommended the same. The next page is page 212. The department requested 350,000. The governor recommended the same. This is the Kirbyville school district project. The next page is page 220. The department requested 150 million. The governor recommended the same. This is the highway 67 Butler County project. But just to be clear that 90 million again we're we're hoping that we get some grants from the federal government. We're not actually going to obligate that out of the road fund right? So really what this is is 60 million dollars worth of GR that the legislature put in the budget last year. Right? Yes. That's right. Next page is page 228. The department requested 3.4 million. The governor recommended the same. This is for the LeCompte road industrial access. The next page is page 236. The department requested 40 million. The governor recommended the same. This is for an interchange the I-70 Warren County. The next page is page 244. The department requested 4.2 million. The governor recommended the same. This is for a project on highway 63 in Columbia. The next page. Thank you. I want to discuss that real quick. There's been money in for that 63 exchange previously for 2 4.2 millions an additional ask right we found new places we need to be able to expend that money no okay I drive through it all right it is not new dollars this year it's same 4.2 million it's at the 63 and Grindstone Parkway interchange on the southwest quadrant director just for clarification we've already started that work right no we're working with so what is that going on now that y'all tearing up the street on 63 uh-huh that's part of the I-70 project the interchange well where I'm talking about is an I-70 though it's not right there at the interchange it's actually at Grindstone Parkway well there's a existing modot project to redo Grindstone Parkway interchange and then there's a project north of there kind of by Broadway that's part of the interchange at 63 and 70 that we're doing with the I-70 project okay and those are under construction right now next page is page 252 the department requested 38 million the governor recommended the same this is the highway 65 Buffalo to Warsaw project can I get an update on that one yeah tell me tell me how we're doing there because last time last time I knew we put that in the budget at the request of the governor last year he actually vetoed I think 10 million dollars out of what we put into it and the story I got from the department was that thing is so far away from even getting started you don't know why the money's sitting there pretty well I mean yeah we're working on the preliminary work to get that one started because we didn't have anything going previously on that one vetoed 10 million right what didn't he veto 10 million right yeah originally it was it was 10 million more but we do have a concept and we're working through the public involvement and getting can I give me give me a realistic time frame when you say we have a concept I mean are we like three years from starting this thing probably two years I'm starting it would be my guess next page is page 260 the department requested 4.7 the governor recommended the same this is the highway 65 and route B intersection project thank you mr. chair I know this project has had some major problems back and forth can somebody give me an update I think there was some engineering I don't know it seemed like there was one problem after another with this intersection could somebody give me an update it sounds like maybe we're on the right track now but could somebody kind of give me an update yeah I think we've resolved the issue the original budget language said interchange which kind of got everybody a little off can I just like what should it have said intersection should have been intersection improvements so we've figured it out we've worked with we've worked with OA and we're we're proceeding on the project so because that is basically to put turn lanes into the into the fairgrounds basically hmm well not exactly I mean that intersection is a disaster the way it's set up right now so but it was my understanding that maybe we're over the hurdle is that do you think okay all right thank you next page is page 268 the department requested 20 million the governor recommended the same this is the 9 and highway 58 project next page is page 276 the governor recommended 17 million for a plant County road replacement project what's the road it's a road inside the industrial park there it's not a moat out road it's a it's a local development road that connects I 29 to highway 92 90 between 92 and 9 29 thank you is this the total cost of the road is there some private our local investment to match that our yeah there's a lot of local investment could you get us that information as well as we can yes thank you we will attempt to do that all right next page is page 295 the department requested 169,000 and one position the governor did not recommend this item the next page is page 302 the department requested 100 million the governor recommended the same this is the low-volume roads money this is the projects that are being awarded in fiscal year 25 that it'll be fiscal year 26 before they're paid out how much Brenda how much new money is actually in this this is no new money this is reappropriation of the yeah so I want yeah I want I think every and see that our committee is dwindling or whatever but I want people to be aware that this isn't another hundred million dollars for low-volume roads this is just a continuation of the last hundred million dollars that we put in last year correct last year so correct fiscal year though right this isn't another hundred million dollarsWe've put in 300 million dollars in the last three years, 100 million dollars of WAC and this is not any new money. No this is not new money, thank you. So everybody knows. I'll answer the part of how much of it has actually been spent when I'm there. Sorry. So 60 million. Out of the total, how much has been spent? So year one is is completely expended and paid. Year two, all projects. 100 million is completely expended. So in House Bill, if you don't mind, House Bill 17 is the projects that were awarded in fiscal year 24 that we're finishing out paying. We have about 16 or 6.7 million left on that and we have a handful of projects that will be completed in May or June this year because we realized savings and so we got to let a few extra projects and so they're just running a little late. This hundred million, we're hoping that in March all of the projects will be awarded. Again we recognize some savings so all the projects will be awarded but I don't believe any money has actually been expended on these projects because it's been winter and they haven't been able to get out and do the work yet. So it'll actually pay out later this spring and into fiscal year 26. We can give you a detailed list of all the roads. Actually the prices have been getting better. In year one, we made them be complete by July by the end of fiscal year and that really kind of elevated the prices. The second round we gave them till the end of the season like November. Prices got better so we did the same thing this year. So it kind of goes over that July fiscal year end but we're getting you know probably 20% more roads done as a result of that and better pricing. So it's been hugely popular. It's been a huge benefit. No doubt about it. Could I get a copy of that list as well? We'll all get a copy. Perfect. Thank you. What we've done today, what's under contract and it's a good story. Thank you. Next page is page 318. The department requested $400,000. The governor recommended the same. This is for our motor carrier safety assistance program. There's more federal funding available. And that will complete the first book. We will pick up in the second book on page 358. The department requested $312,000 in two positions. The governor did not recommend this item. This is for the aviation section because of the increase in funding that they have received. The next page is page 421. The department requested $500,000. The governor recommended the same. This is under the bus and bus facilities transit grants. There was a congressional earmarked discretionary grant that was awarded to OATS. We are, this was one-time legislation last year. We're kind of hopeful that this is going to get paid out this year, but it has not paid out yet. The next page is page 434. The department, this is one of, now some of these next will be one times on the multimodal side. The department requested $3 million. The governor recommended the same. This is a pilot project in Platt County. Again, we're hopeful that a large portion of this money will be paid out this fiscal year. Next page is page 449. The department requested $7.7 million. The governor recommended $3.2 million. So after we submitted our request, we determined that we did not need $2.8 million for service between Kansas City and St. Judd. The infrastructure wasn't there. So what has been recommended or what we actually requested was $1.5 million increase due to inflation and then an additional $3.4 million to provide a third train a day for the World Cup. So the amount for the third train a day is $1.7 million. Next page is page 465. The department requested $49 million. The governor recommended the same. These are the railroad grade crossing hazard projects that has been appropriated in the past. What's the hold up there? Because we put $50 million in the budget last year or the year before. That's right. And now we have $49 million. So we don't own either one of the roads. We don't own the road that crosses it or the railroad. So we're the facilitator of trying to get these folks to agree to do those things. I know you don't own the railroads. And all these roads are county or city roads. So would a better utilization of the remaining $49 million to not go through you and let us allocate the specific resources to the projects that need to get done in those communities? I mean, if you're just facilitating this and you've been sitting on it for a year, I don't know what the hold up is. Yeah, we're making some progress, but it's really hard to get railroads. That's not actually the story that I got. Because the railroad folks came by a couple of weeks ago, and they're not exactly happy with the, I would say, anemic turnaround of these dollars. And we're not either. So what's the problem? Getting the railroad and the counties to agree. Why is that? Okay. I mean, they have to both agree. It's not like you can force the issue on this. It would not be a good idea. So we've made a little progress, and we've got some stuff in the works. But tell me what's in the works. So we've prioritized the passenger rail lines. So that would be the Southwest Chief, the Texas Eagle. But that was done before the $50 million was allocated for this in the beginning. The story that I got was we had already prioritized the intersections that we wanted to start working on. And, yeah, while the actual price tag was, I think, north of $200 million, we thought we'd start this with $50 million and try to get as many of these things done as we can. And from what I can tell, we're not getting much done. That's my frustration here. And mine, too. I don't like $50 million of general revenue just sitting while we say, well, we're working on it. Yeah, I'd agree with you. I think if you appropriate it this year. I don't believe this. I'm sorry, but I've been doing this too long. Okay. We can give you the list of the ones that we have. Yeah, give me the list. In progress. And the plan is, is if we can't make any more progress on the passenger rail lines, we're going to move to the freight. Okay, yeah, give me the list. Senator Black. I think I was, you know I was part of the conversation with the number one priority in this area. Is that agreement done in our area? And I'm asking you. I know I can call the three commissioners and find out from them. But the Sheridan County crossings. You're talking about Menden, right? Yes. Yeah, that agreement is done. Okay. It is done. They're as happy as they're going to get on it? I think so. Now we're moving on to Ray and to other counties across that line. Honestly, we're not making much progress on the Texas Eagle because we have a different railroad that's not as interested in really doing this. So I think the next step is we move to the freight rail where they have crossings and see what we can get done. Menden, the agreements are done. The money probably hasn't been completely spent yet, but we have the agreement. Okay. I have some questions here about the rail crossings. So this is one where we have 50% of our fatalities in the state have come at these passive crossings. That's from your book right here. So over the past five years, around 50% of the fatalities at railroad crossings in Missouri occurred at passive crossings. So you're telling me that right now you can't install flashing lights and gates? On the state system, we've done that on almost all the roads we own. The problem is these roads are owned by somebody else. So we can't go tell them, hey, let's put in lights. And they're saying no, don't put up? Yeah, they are. Okay. And you just got to understand the railroads want crossings to be eliminated. They don't want lights and gates. They want the crossing to go away. And the local communities don't want crossings to go away. So we kind of come to this loggerhead of why don't you just put lights and gates on everything? Well, the railroad don't want to do that. Well, I feel like this is one of those situations. And just to reflect the chairman's sentiment here, it's frustrating that we're allocating this money. And you're essentially telling us that we're not going to be able to do anything because of the disagreement. So I feel like this is a place where we just need to take a step back, figure out a group of people who can actually get this done. Because this is one that's incredibly frustrating. I mean, obviously, Senator Black had a very tragic derailment in his area. I just do not understand why we can't get something done here. And the fact that we're sitting here with the same thing before us, I mean, if that's the situation, then we've got to figure out another solution. Okay. Next page is page 470. The department requested a million. The governor recommended the same. This is for the DeSoto train stop. Next page is page 481. The department requested $10.5 million. The governor recommended the same. This is for two projects, one at Cape Girardeau and another at Rosecrans. Next page is page 485. The department requested $9.5 million. The governor recommended the same. This is for a project at the Rosecrans Memorial Airport. The next page is page...$500,000. The department requested $12.2 million. The governor recommended the same. This expansion item is for congressional earmarks from the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Community Project Funding, congressionally directed spending. Next page is page 509. The department requested an increase of $5 million. The governor did not recommend it. This would be the funding for port capital improvements, so an increase for increased investment in port capital improvements. Next page is page 520. The department requested $200,000. The governor recommended the same. This is from the State Transportation Fund. This is to provide additional financial assistance to port authorities. Next page is page 530. The department requested $29.6 million. The governor recommended $6.7 million. The difference between the two amounts, this is the port CI being spent from the Waterways Port Trust Fund. The two components is the $5 million increase in port CI was not recommended. The other is there have been significant expenditures for the Jefferson County Port Authority, so the money that was earmarked for that port authority is included here. Next page is page 536. The department requested $500,000. The governor recommended the same. This is for the Southeast Missouri Port. Next page is page 541. The department requested $4 million. The governor recommended the same. This is for the Pemiscot County Port. The next page is page 551. The department requested $10 million. The governor recommended the same. This $10 million is a place to run federal funds if we receive them to use in conjunction with that $49 million that we discussed earlier. We haven't received any to date, but that's what this would be used for. And that concludes our budget. All right, thanks. Any other questions from the committee before we kept MoDOT loose for today? Doesn't look like it. Thanks for being here. That'll conclude the approach hearing for this morning, folks.