Mr. Speaker, the next order of business is Senate bills for third reading and I ask that you recognize the gentleman from Clay for a motion on House Committee Substitute, Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bill 68. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Clay County. What purpose do you rise? Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I move that House Committee Substitute for Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bill 68 be third read and passed. The gentleman from Clay County has moved for the third reading and passage of Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bill 68. Gentleman from Clay County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I move that the title for House Committee Substitute to Senate Substitute to Senate Committee Substitute to Senate Bill 68 be agreed to. Gentleman from Clay County, would you like to make a motion to adopt the House Committee Substitute for the Senate bill? Yes, Mr. Speaker, I make a motion we adopt the substitute. The gentleman from Clay County has moved for the adoption of the House Committee Substitute for Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bill 68. Gentleman from Clay County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I move that the title for House Committee Substitute to Senate Substitute to Senate Committee Substitute to Senate Substitute 68 be agreed to. The gentleman from Clay County has moved for the agreement of the title, discussion on the title. Seeing none, all those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. You have agreed to the title. Gentleman from Clay County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, over the course of the summer, the Senator from District No. 3 and I, at the request of the Governor, had the opportunity to work on some school safety measures. One of the low-hanging pieces that we found that we could improve school safety across the state of Missouri is by requiring that all schools report when there's a school safety incident, anything ranging from threat of violence to actual violence on the campus. Collect those and submit them to DESE in real time so that we can begin to understand what schools are having safety issues, what the locations are, and to begin to develop a safer plan on what to do about it. I think that there's very little—this is very bipartisan. There's very little disagreement under this particular measure. And then another measure, I think, that's very important to school safety came along. That's with electronic devices. Mr. Speaker, if I could, I would like to inquire from the lady from Boone 45. Does the lady from Boone County District 45 yield to an inquiry? Yes, I do. Proceed, representatives. Thank you, lady. Now, it's my understanding that you had an opportunity to add on some cell phone language onto the bill. I wonder if you had the opportunity to talk a little bit about that. Yeah. Actually, at the beginning of session, I think there were four different cell phone bills floating around between the House and the Senate. And I appreciate the colleagues in the House that also offered cell phone bills. It passed through our House committee. One of the things that we all saw when we filed these bills is how cell phones have just are really damaging our youth, especially in the school setting. It's damaging their mental health, their ability to focus, their ability to socialize. And so we were looking for some kind of fix. The version that's in this Senate Bill 68 was a good compromise between the House position and the Senate position. It does direct our local school districts to create policies. So it does give them a lot of autonomy with that. The only part that is required is that they have phone-free zones during instructional time and during mealtimes. And what would you say to people that say that this is a draconian move, that taking away the cell phones of these students in emergencies and other things will adversely impact them? Well, I will add that in our bill, we purposely encourage districts to consider emergencies and how they will allow for use during that time, and not just emergencies, but also students who have special needs that make the cell phone easier. You think about a student who's new to our country and maybe doesn't speak the language, and that translator on that cell phone is an easy way for a district to be able to give translation services without having to pay for that. So we have in our bill encouraging districts to allow for emergencies and allow for those special conditions. Okay. And last question. Now, is this a case where the legislature is trying to mandate what the school district does, or is there enough flexibility in this bill to allow the school districts to develop their own plans? I can see why somebody might say that, but one of the pushbacks that I will give is that our districts are having trouble really sticking with these policies. And what it does is it makes us as a state the bad guys for that. It allows districts to truly enforce their policies with a lot of flexibility with how they write them. All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Thank you. Further discussion on Senate Bill 68. The chair recognizes the speaker, Pro Tem. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have an amendment ending in .20H. It's been distributed. I move for its adoption. The speaker, Pro Tem, has offered House Amendment 1. Discussion on the amendment. The speaker, Pro Tem, is recognized. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. It's very, very simple. It simply says if your school has a safety plan that includes AEDs, that that portion needs to be made aware to the 911 folks so that they can tell folks where they would be able to find AEDs in the school district. And that is all it does. With that, I'll take any questions. Discussion on the amendment. The chair recognizes the gentleman from Randolph. Yeah, Mr. Speaker, I think this is a good amendment. I think that we should adopt it and move on. Further discussion. Gentleman from St. Louis County. Just to pile on, I also think this is a good amendment. I urge the body to support it. Thank you. Further discussion. Seeing none, the gentleman from Pike is recognized. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I close. The gentleman from Pike County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment 1. All those in favor will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Gentleman from Randolph County. Yeah, Mr. Speaker, to speak on some of the other portions that are on this bill. This is, Senate Bill 68 came through the Education Committee and we were given the go-ahead by the Senate handler on the other side to make some adjustments to the bill and to make some additions. We did add several provisions to this bill. There are parts or all of 17 bills that have come across this floor and have been passed either near unanimously or unanimously from the floor. Some of the provisions that have come through off the floor is House Bill 607, which is the minibus that we sent over to the Senate for their consideration. Just in case that little minibus doesn't come back the way we want it, we have attached it to this bill. That contains a lot of good legislation that fixes a lot of issues that we have. This has House Bill 332, which is Kelly's bill, which requires the training that people get. It's on this bill. It has a representative from the Buchanan District, Shields District. It has her emergency and safety considerations, House Bill 416. The representative from the Pettis District, which has the House Bill 712, has also been on here and several of the provisions that are on there. House Bill 1287, which is the Teacher and Parent Bill of Rights, which passed unanimously out of committee and with both bipartisan support, is also on this bill as well as House Bill 220 and House Bill 32, which is about dealing with adult high school age changes, which we've had across the floor a couple of different times. There's several different provisions on here, and I'm sure some other people will talk about some other of those provisions. I do have one amendment to offer, and it's .17H. It has been distributed, and I move for its adoption. The gentleman from Randolph has offered House Amendment Number 2, ending in .17H, to move for its adoption. Gentleman from Randolph. Yes, so this amendment does two very small changes. Right now we have school for the deaf and school for the blind services provided by DESE across the state for those populations. And in some locations near the border of the state, we have accessed and used schools across the state line in Kansas and in other adjacent states. But the way our statutes currently read, that isn't actually acceptable. It's not legal. So this bill, this little portion would say, or in adjacent states in that piece of statute to allow us to make sure that our IEP students and our students that have disabilities can still access those abilities that they already are accessing, but it's not cut off, as we've recognized that that isn't necessarily within the statute. It also changes a very small provision in House Bill 941, which was on this, just adding the words instead of may not include and changing it to shall not rely primarily on, which is an agreement between the senator on the handle—senator handler on the other side and our committee to make sure that that language stays on when the conference report, if we move to that, is adopted. So with that, I just move that these two small provisions be adopted. Discussion on the amendment? Seeing none, the gentleman from Randolph is recognized to close. I close. The gentleman from Randolph has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment Number 2. All those in favor will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Lady from Barton County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have an amendment ending .15H, and I'd like to ask for its adoption. The lady from Barton County has offered House Amendment Number 3. It ends in .15H.1-5-H and has moved for its adoption. Lady from Barton. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. So this is my CareerTech bill, House Bill 331 and also Senate Bill 150. This is the original bill itself and I think this is a great spot for it and I ask for everybody's support. Discussion on House Amendment 3. Seeing none, the lady from Barton is recognized to close. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I renew my motion. The lady from Barton County has renewed her motion for the adoption of House Amendment number 3. All those in favor will signify by saying aye. Aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The lady's motion is approved. The rules chairwoman from Buchanan County is recognized. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have an amendment ending in .16-H and I move for its adoption. The lady from Buchanan County has moved for the adoption of House Amendment number 4 ending in .16-H. Lady from Buchanan. Thank you. On page 71, line 72, we talk about Teachers for Tomorrow. It's an alternative certification program and in the bill it says that they can't be certified by this program, by an early childhood education as well as special education. And we'd like to add in that that a teacher can't be certified through this program for gifted education. As you know, I've done a lot of work around gifted education and working with these students, our special group of individuals that we think they need special training. So with that, Mr. Speaker, I'll take any questions. Discussion on the motion. Gentleman from Randolph County. Yeah, from a microphone other than my own. Proceed, gentleman. Yeah, the Teachers for Tomorrow was added in House Bill 607 as a alternative certification route, but they don't necessarily do special ed or gifted programming. Currently in statute, in the bill that we have, she just wanted to add the gifted part since this is not going to restrict what the Teachers for Tomorrow were going to offer for our state, so I have no problem with the addition of this amendment. Further discussion on the amendment? Seeing none, the lady from Buchanan is recognized to close. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I close. The lady from Buchanan County has renewed her motion for the adoption of House Amendment number four to Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the lady's motion will signify by saying aye. Aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The lady's motion is approved. Gentleman from Pettis County in the back. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I have an amendment, .13H. It has been distributed. I move for its adoption. The gentleman from Pettis County has moved that the House adopt House Amendment number five, ending in .16H. Gentleman from Pettis County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. This was given to me after the time to file for a bill. This establishes a principal administrator academy. It's not asking for additional monies. It's asking that to be funded through monies that are already appropriated. It provides professional development to our principals and our superintendents. Our principals and superintendents, 60% of those are within the first three or four years of their positions. They're becoming younger and younger. And we do a lot of professional development for our teachers. We do very little, if any, professional development to our administrators. And that's what this amendment would allow. That, I remove my motion or take any questions. Discussion on House Amendment five, and this is Amendment .13H for our viewers at home. Discussion on the amendment? Seeing none, the gentleman from Pettis County is recognized to close. I close. The gentleman from Pettis County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment five, to substitute for Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Gentleman from Laclede County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have an amendment ending in .06H. It has been distributed and I move for its adoption. The gentleman from Laclede County has moved for the adoption of House Amendment number six, ending in .06H. Gentleman from Laclede. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. This simply says that if you are an enlisted person in the military, that you will be exempt from the 14-day requirement to participate in a first ball game. And if there's not any questions, I will renew my motion. Discussion on the motion? Seeing none, the gentleman from, lady from Platt County. To inquire of the amendment maker. Does the gentleman from Laclede County yield? I do. And do you have a clear path? The gentleman from Clay County will. Thank you. That's a good amendment, you're gonna love it. Thank you for your patience, gentlemen. Okay, I just wanted to have it in front of me. So my question is literally just, how many people does this apply to right now? Not very many. Okay, but like, are there active duty? Yes, you can actually, with parental permission, enlist as 17, you can do your basic training before your senior year in high school, and then you complete your senior year in high school, and you've already completed your basic training, and you're considered active duty, like National Guard or anything like that. Okay, okay, thank you. That's what I figured, I just, I was, when I saw this language, I was genuinely curious, like how many kids are we talking about? Do you have a ballpark number of how many? I'm gonna assume less than 10 a year. Okay, excellent. Thank you, gentlemen. But if you're participating in sports, and you're doing your training for this, we're gonna count that as your practices and not penalize you. Absolutely, I appreciate it. Thank you. Further discussion on the amendment. Gentleman from Randolph. Yeah, I think this amendment, even though it only applies to a few of our high school students, it is given a consideration for those that are actively serving in the military, and it's not going to break anything. So with that, I think that this is amendment that we can adopt. Further discussion on the amendment. Seeing none, the gentleman from Laclede County is recognized to close. I close. The gentleman from Laclede County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment Number Six to Senate Bill 68. All those in favor will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Gentleman from Clay County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have an amendment ending in .26H. It's been distributed, and I move for its adoption. The gentleman from Clay County has offered House Amendment Number Seven. It ends in .26H and moved for its adoption. Gentleman from Clay County. Mr. Speaker, this is the International Baccalaureate Bill. I think it was on the House floor Tuesday and was discussed at length. Voted consent to higher ed. It basically says that kids that are in the IB program, if they score a certain score on their end-of-year test, they will get college credit for that if the college or university has a corresponding course. Great bill. Please support. Thank you. Any questions? Discussion on the amendment. Gentleman from Randolph. Yeah, Mr. Speaker. We've heard this bill on the floor, but we've also heard similar bills like this. It does also fit under the title because they are still elementary and secondary education students when they take this test. I think it's a good amendment, a move for its adoption. I think we should support it. Further discussion. Gentleman from Jackson County, Lee's Summit. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, to speak on the bill. Proceed, gentlemen. On the amendment, thank you. Yeah, this is a good amendment. We talked about it a couple days ago. It has passed out. It has support from everyone from community college to the University of Missouri system. It's gonna help students stay in this state instead of going to our neighbors to the east or the west. So I think this is a good one. I hope the body will support this amendment. Thank you. Further discussion on the amendment. On the amendment. Seeing none, the gentleman from Clay County is recognized to close. I close. The gentleman from Clay County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment number seven for Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. The gentleman from Webster County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have an amendment identified as .09H. It has been distributed. I move for its adoption. The gentleman from Webster County has offered House Amendment number eight. It ends in .09H and moved for its adoption. Gentleman from Webster County. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, this amendment in three parts. The first is my bill entitled Missouri Religious Liberty in Schools Awareness Act. It requires the public schools to post a notice for students' employees of their constitutional First Amendment rights, specifically with regard to religious freedom. It came out of committee 16 to one. I want to thank the gentleman from District 90 and the chair for helping make this a better bill. The second is from the lady from Barton. She has an amendment to remove the sunset from the period of time for teachers serving on the State Board of Education. The third is from the gentleman from District 94. It is his Media Literacy and Critical Thinking Act. Passed off this floor, I believe, the last two years. Came out of committee this year 17 to one. With that, I'd be happy to respond to any questions, Mr. Speaker. Discussion on House Amendment number eight. Gentleman from Bowtie Franklin. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Speak in favor of the amendment. Proceed, gentleman. Mr. Speaker, I believe all three of these parts came through education at some point in the last couple of years. Certainly the first two pieces I heard this year. The first piece I'm very interested in strikes a great balance of delineated, the rights that all of our students have within public education on their First Amendment. I believe the sponsor presented it well. This had bipartisan support. I believe this is a great amendment and I would advocate as Vice Chair Education that this amendment be adopted. Further discussion, House Amendment number eight. Gentleman from St. Louis County. To speak on the amendment. Proceed, gentleman. This amendment, obviously this is education bill omnibus that's going through a lot of things on this.bill. This amendment is perhaps a one example of your committee on education's work throughout the course of this session. I commend the chair of that committee, the ranking member, and the whole group. I think this has been certainly in my limited experience the the highest functioning committee I've had the pleasure of being on and I appreciate everyone's willingness to work to find compromise when we can and this is generally a collection of smaller bills that that are ones that had bipartisan support and this amendment is an example of one which certainly I would not have brought this amendment myself or this issue to the committee but I appreciate both sides being willing to sit down and work together on it so it's just an example of the omnibus bill that that's generally before us and appreciate that thank you. Further discussion on the amendment? Seeing none the gentleman from Webster's recognized close. Thank You Mr. Speaker I renew my motion. The gentleman from Webster County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment number 8 to Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. The gentleman from St. Louis County District 94 96. Thank You Mr. Speaker I have an amendment ending in point 2 2 H it's been distributed I move for its adoption. The gentleman from St. Louis County District 96 has moved for the adoption of House Amendment number 9 ending in point 2 2 H and move for its adoption. Gentleman from St. Louis County. Thank You Mr. Speaker this is a change to a section of this bill that the gentleman from Morgan has in this bill on if your child goes or if you at work in a school district your child can attend that school district regardless of where you live and this adds charter schools to that as well. With that I'll take any questions. Discussion on House Amendment number 9. Seeing none the gentleman from St. Louis County's recognized close. I renew my motion. The gentleman from St. Louis County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment number 9. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Gentleman from St. Louis County. Thank You Mr. Speaker I have an amendment ending in point 1 1 H it has been distributed and I move for its adoption. The gentleman from St. Louis County has moved for the adoption of House Amendment number 10 ending in point 1 1 H and move for its adoption. Gentleman from St. Louis County. Thank You Mr. Speaker I there's a couple different there's two different provisions in this amendment while both of which have passed from committee one on the floor with widespread bipartisan support. One is the STEM career awareness activity program that we've heard on the floor and went through committee unanimously. The other went through children and families on a 16-0 vote that is the recovery high school. Just simply updating the statute to and expanding it to allow other pro educational programs to to be able to apply for the recovery high school program to build these pilot schools so we can actually get hopefully all four but at least one of these up and running soon. I'm happy to answer any questions otherwise I'd be asked to recognize to close. Discussion on the amendment. Gentleman from Randolph. Now this is a two good amendments obviously the STEM awareness act is a piece of legislation we've already passed across the floor but the second piece about the recovering high schools if we do not open up and broaden the scope of the recovery high schools we may not get any of those recovery high schools going and so it is something that the department thinks that we need and I appreciate the amendment sponsor bringing this forward. I would ask the body to support this. Discussion on the amendment. Lady from Diminutive Green County. To speak on the amendment please. Percy Lady. Mr. Speaker a portion of this amendment went through your committee on higher education and workforce development. It had unanimous support. It also passed through the house. I support that portion of the bill and have no problems with the other portion of the amendment as well. Thank you Mr. Speaker. Further discussion on the amendment. Seeing none the gentleman from St. Louis County is recognized to close. Thank you Mr. Speaker I renew my motion. The gentleman from St. Louis County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment number 10 to Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Gentleman from Morgan County. Mr. Speaker I have an amendment ending in 0.02 H. It has been distributed and I move for its adoption. The gentleman from Morgan County has offered House Amendment number 11. It ends in 0.02 H. Gentleman from Morgan. Thank you Mr. Speaker. This was my House Bill 329 that was heard in the Pensions Committee and passed by vote of 15 to 0. It also was approved out of the Rules Committee by vote of 8 to 0. Basically what it does is that our retirement system for the retired teachers and school personnel PSRS and peers there is a cap that they cannot exceed a COLA increases past the 80th percent of their original retirement income. Typically retirees have to have to be retired approximately 30 years before this cap is reached and with a average retirement age of 58 that means that they have to be 88 years of age or older approximately before this is ever this ever affects them and currently there are 2,831 PSRS retirees who are locked or who are capped off and are no longer getting any kind of COLA increases and 772 peers retirees who have reached that 80% cap. This this would allow a 1% COLA increase if certain guidelines are met and the most important guideline is that the the actual returns must be 2% over the assumed rate of return so we we set a goal for what the return should be and it has to perform at 2% above that rate before this 1% could ever be added onto a COLA and it would this 2% above will generate 1.2 billion every year and that far exceeds the cost of this proposal which is approximately 4.6 to 14 million per year so the income greatly exceeds what the cost of this program would be and I think we owe that to our retirees to allow them to get a 1% COLA gradually. Of course it cannot exceed the hundred percentile ever and with that I close. Discussion on House Amendment number 11. Gentleman from St. Louis County in the back. Thank you Mr. Speaker to speak on the amendment please. Proceed gentlemen. Thank You Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker the gentleman did a wonderful job explaining his amendment. It has guardrails in it but will allow retirement benefits to go up for our existing educators. This is a wonderful bill. It's got bipartisan support. I say we all vote yes for this amendment. Thank you. Further discussion on the amendment. Seeing none the gentleman from Morgan is recognized to close. I redo my motion. The gentleman from Morgan County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment number 11 for Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Gentleman from Bates County. Thank You Mr. Speaker. I have an amendment ending in 0.25 H. It's been distributed and I move for its adoption. The gentleman from Bates County has offered House Amendment number 12. It ends in 0.25 H and moved for its adoption. Gentleman from Bates County. Thank You Mr. Speaker. This has a bill that came through earlier this session. House Bill 538 allows specialty transportation companies a more streamlined process for drivers. It also has the bill for bus driver retention up in the age of 75 and it has a component for school safety on what I would call a lockbox, a master box for law enforcement and first responders to access outside the schools in times of emergencies without taking any questions. Discussion on House Amendment number 12. Gentleman from Bowtie Franklin. Yeah to speak in favor of the amendment Mr. Speaker. This is a great amendment. Parts of this we heard in Education Committee this year. One of my constituents advocates for this increase in age on buses to me every year. I'm thankful we've got a vehicle for it in this and I would request that the body support the amendment. Further discussion on House Amendment number 12. Seeing none the gentleman from Bates is recognized to close. I close. The gentleman from Bates County has renewed his motion for the adoption of House Amendment number 12 the Senate substitute for Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. Lady from Boone County. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I respect your tradition of saving the best for last. I have an amendment ending in .23 H. It's been distributed and I move for its adoption. The lady from Boone County has offered House Amendment number 13. It ends in .23 H and moved for its adoption. Lady from Boone County. Thank you. This is a bill that was heard in last year's Education Committee and it was voted out unanimously. It would affect a small number of Missourians but I think it would have profound effect on them. It has to do with special education law. When we have really young kiddos ages three through five that don't qualify for a school-age disability they get classified as young child developmental delay. It's under the federal IDEA program and that allows states to determine at what age do we stop providing them services. Currently 40 other states allow services higher than what we do in Missouri. So this would increase the age of services by one year. So kids that normally would end their services at the end of kindergarten would get to keep those services throughfirst grade if they don't qualify for a school-age disability. I'd be happy to answer questions. Discussion on House Bill 13, Gentleman from Randolph. Thank you Mr. Speaker. To speak on this amendment and the entire bill. Proceed, Gentleman. Yeah, this is a good amendment. I heard this last year in committee, but also it's just, it really is a common sense thing, just changing the number a year to make sure that we aren't hurting some children who really need these developmental changes for their IEP plans. I just want to say also that you can see this is a very large bill that we've put together with all the education provisions that we have found agreement on between both sides of the aisle for the majority of that, and I think that it's just something great to move to the Senate for their, to exceed their differences and hopefully just adopt straight out. But with that, I close. Further discussion on House Amendment 13. Seeing none, the lady from Boone County is recognized to close. I would like to also add my support for this bill and say that it's been a pleasure to work with the chair and the vice chair of this committee, as well as every single one of the bill sponsors for this Senate bill. I renew my motion. The lady from Boone County has renewed her motion for the adoption of House Amendment Number 13 to Senate Substitute for Senate Bill 68. All those in favor of approving the lady's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The lady's motion is approved. Further discussion. Gentleman from Bowtie Franklin. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I'd like to request a chance to speak with the representative from the Pollitt District about the underlying bill. Does the gentleman from Pettis County yield to an inquiry? I do. Proceed, gentleman. Thank you, Representative, for an opportunity to talk. I wanted to highlight three parts of this bill that I think are important. First two are your pieces, and then the last one's going to be from the representative from the Gregg District. The first two pieces I want to talk about just briefly. Could you explain the importance of the grade-level equivalents, the lack of that currently in statute, and why this was important, why you brought it forward? Well, for years since I've been here, we've discussed student achievement in this building, and we've never had a grade level. We talk about proficient and advanced, which is really above grade level, and that is our goal to get our kids above grade level. But we need to be able to talk about grade level and above. So when we say 35 percent of our kids are proficient and advanced in fifth-grade reading, that means 35 percent or above, but we may have 30 more percent that are at grade level. And so this is not watering down, and there's been some confusion about that, that this is actually watering down how we're going to test our students. That is not doing that. It basically is going to give us in this building a better avenue to discuss student achievement. And it will also let parents know, because when you try to tell a parent that their child is reading at grade level and grade level somewhere in the upper end of basic, and it's always somewhere in the upper end of basic, and no one can say where it's at in the upper end of basic, this will just say this is grade level. Yeah, I appreciate hearing this bill in committee, and I'm glad that we got it attached to this. The other one was the zero-tolerance policy. I know when we talked about this bill in committee, it had interest when this got presented over in the Senate. This is one of the things that the Senators highlighted, wanted to give you an opportunity to talk about why this is important, why we would include it in the bill. Well, this is from the Mackey District, and Senator Bratton and Representative Mackey, they both were interested in this bill. When I was an administrator, I did not practice zero-tolerance. You have to look at each individual, and if a student is being assaulted and they're defending themselves, then they shouldn't be treated the same as someone who's assaulting them. And that's what zero-tolerance basically did. It just said everybody's going to be treated the same. If you throw a punch, you're out for three days, you're out for five days. So if you're the one that's being assaulted, you shouldn't have the same punishment that the child that's assaulting you gets. And so this basically says that administrators have to look at each individual incident on its merit and make decisions based off that, instead of just follow on to zero-tolerance. Yeah, it's a great explanation, case-by-case basis, evaluation of each individual situation. I was thankful for Representative Mackey bringing this forward, and there was some interest in the Senate. That's why I wanted to highlight it. Thank you, Representative, for the inquiry. Thank you. I'd like to take the opportunity, Mr. Speaker, to also inquire of the representative from the 140 District, Representative Gregg. Does the gentleman from Christian County yield to an inquiry? I do, sir. Proceed, gentlemen. Thank you, Representative. I thought maybe just for a minute, we've talked about the cell phone. There's been several bills, but I know this was important to you. I thought you'd give you an opportunity to kind of talk to the people about where we got to as a committee, our version, and kind of where it sits now. I'm glad that you put this into the bill. I thought I'd give you a chance to highlight this section of the bill. Sure. Thank you. This all started when I was having a discussion with one of my teachers back home, and she had implemented a cell phone policy in her class. She noticed how the attention spans, the test scores, the homework scores skyrocketed once the students were able to get rid of the distractions and focus on what they're there for, studying and learning. I talked with teachers across the state, talked with administrators across the state, school boards across the state, and parents, and varying levels of excitement of this bill. Students, of course, not so much, but I got such a very good response that the bill needed to go through. Representative Steinhoff as well filed a bill very similar, similar enough that we were able to work together on it and get it across the line. It gets the teachers the attention they need from the students so the students can actually do what they're sent to school for, and that's learn and retain the information without the dangers, the outside influences of cell phones. Well, once again, I appreciate your work on this particular issue. It's certainly been raised in many of our school districts around the state. I think they're looking to us for some guidance at the state level, and I think we struck a good balance of both giving some direction from the state level and giving the freedom for the school boards to implement this in a way that they feel. Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, I just want to speak briefly on the bill. Vice Chair of Education, your Education Committee, it's been a real pleasure this year to work together many times, honestly, in a very bipartisan way. A lot of good work got done in this committee. This is a product of many of those pieces that got brought through the committee this year, the work that we did behind the scenes and also in committee, and it is a very large bill now. I'm sure it will get adjusted some when it goes over to the other side, but I'm actually very proud of the product that we produced out of our committee this year and would encourage the body to vote in favor of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Further discussion on Senate Bill 68? Seeing none, the gentleman from Clay County is recognized to close. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, as we go to leave this afternoon, everybody in this chamber can rest assured that we just did some very good work. We made Missouri a better place for our children. We worked it in a bipartisan way. I'm very proud of the effort, and with that, I close. The gentleman from Clay County has renewed his motion for the adoption of the House Committee Substitute for Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bill 68 as amended. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will signify by saying aye. All those opposed, no. And the ayes have it. The gentleman's motion is approved. One last time, the gentleman from Clay is recognized. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I renew my motion. The gentleman from Clay County has renewed his motion for the third reading and passage of House Committee Substitute for Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bill 68 as amended. All those in favor of approving the gentleman's motion will vote yes. All those opposed, no. The clerk will ring the bell and open the board. Has everyone voted? The clerk will close the board and tally the vote. With the ayes being 130 and the nays being 15, with three present, House Committee Substitute for Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bill 68 is third read and passed. The speaker hereby appoints the following conference committee to act with a like committee from the Senate on House Committee Substitute for Senate Substitute for Senate Committee Substitute for Senate Bills 81 and 174, Taylor 48, Crist, Amato, Sharp, and Crossley. The speaker hereby appoints the following conference committee to act with alike committee from the Senate on Senate substitute for Senate Bill 28, Brown 149, Justice Baker, Clemons, and Kimball. Gentlemen from Greene County.