Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. House Budget Committee will come back to order here, and we will continue now with the Missouri Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. Director, if you'd like to come forward, and thank you for being with us today, and you may begin with any introductions, introductory comments you might have, and then so long as we don't have any inquiries at the outset, you know, at your discretion, you can begin in your book. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, Ranking Members, and members of the Committee. Thank you very much for the opportunity to present the FY26 Budget Request for the Missouri Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. I'm Anna Hughe, Department Director, and with me at the table is Julie Kuhn, our agency's Chief Fiscal Officer. In addition, I have some members of our executive team here with us today. They are Department Deputy Director Matt Hankins, Division of Employment Security Deputy Director Tony Vaughn, Division of Workers' Compensation Acting Director Ben Qualls, Division of Labor Standards Director Logan Hobbs, Missouri Commission on Human Rights Deputy Director Shannon Thompson, the Labor-Industrial Relations Commission Secretary Carla Hogg, and the Department's Legislative Liaison Stephen Marion. This year's budget request is for $384.6 million and 788.63 FTE. The funding sources are 1.22% GR, 29.5% federal, and 69.28% other funds. DOLR's FY26 budget request is a $22.2 million less than the FY25 request of $404.6 million. Based on prior year's data of caseloads and claims that has been supported by a variety of fund sources, we've reduced our request for the budget authority by $10 million in the Division of Workers' Compensation's Second Injury Fund, $12 million in the Division of Employment Security's CARES Act funding, and $200,000 in the line-of-duty GR transfer. These steps are all part of DOLR's commitment to right-sizing our resources to serve citizens. Starting with the Department Director's Office, which includes administration, the Office of General Counsel, communications, and strategic planning, we have 51.65 FTE and are funded through a combination of sources, including GR, federal funds, and other funds. These units provide the services that support the entire agency in the areas of accounting, budget, communications, facilities management, human resources, legal services, procurement, staff training, strategic planning, supplies, and website maintenance. DOLR's largest division, the Division of Employment Security, is led by Director Alan Andrews and has 519.72 FTE and is almost completely federally funded. DES administers the Unemployment Benefits Program, Disaster Unemployment, Shared Work Program, the War on Terror, Unemployment Benefits, Collection of Unemployment Insurance Taxes, and Employment Training. Starting calendar year 2023, the Division of Employment Security's Unemployment Automation Fund began receiving funds. These funds allow the division to maintain a modernized, secure, efficient, and customer-friendly platform for the Unemployment Insurance Program now and into the future. Utilizing this fund, along with the federal funding, DES moved U-Interact, Missouri's web-based unemployment insurance application, to the Amazon Cloud to improve system performance and scalability, making U-Interact the largest Missouri State government application hosted in a cloud environment. We are currently in the process of modernizing U-Interact's system foundation, which will strengthen the agency's platform to continually innovate. Not only has the division continued its commitment to provide for a modern, responsive unemployment insurance program for all Missouri citizens, it is also committed to maintaining the proper balance between the health of the UI Trust Fund and the tax-levied unemployers that fund the program. I'm excited to report that in calendar year 2025, a 12% rate reduction will be applied for the majority of contributing employers, and the taxable wage base for employers will be reduced by $500 to $9,500 for calendar year 2025. The department's second-largest division is the Division of Workers' Compensation, led by Acting Division Director Ben Qualls, with 139.25 FTE and is supported by other funds, primarily the Workers' Compensation Administrative Tax Fund. This division is responsible for assisting injured workers and their employers, resolving disputes between workers, employers, and insurers, the Tort Victims' Compensation Program, line-of-duty payments, second-injury fund claims, and adjusting the workers' compensation surcharges. The DWC continues progress on Work Comp Connect, a multi-year modernization project to streamline processes and automate many facets of Missouri's workers' compensation program, improving how citizens engage with the division and the efficiency with which the division overall administers the program. Phase 1 is scheduled to go live in December 2025 and will include functionalities for case management, medical fee disputes, adjudication, benefit administration, and order entry. Our third-largest division is the Division of Labor Standards, led by Director Logan Hobbs, with 37.22 FTE and funded through GR, federal funds, and other funds. It's comprised of the Wage and Hour Division that covers youth employment, minimum wage, overtime, and prevailing wage. We have three Workplace Safety Programs and the Research and Analysis Unit. The Safe at Work Program is a collaboration of the Division of Workers' Compensation and the Division of Labor Standards. It's in its fifth year now, and this has resulted in making sure workplace data and informational publications are provided to businesses and workers to educate them on how to improve safety at their work sites. The Mine and Cave Safety Program continued to offer training to miners, mine owners, and operators, and also contractors. The Division's on-site Safety and Consultation Program visited workplaces, partnering with them to identify and correct hazards and award Missouri businesses that model exemplary safety records and culture. The next three units are independent commissions for which Dohler handles all administrative operations. The Missouri Commission on Human Rights is headed by Executive Director Dr. Elisa Warren, has 25.7 FTE, and receives both GR and federal funds. This independent commission works to eliminate discrimination in housing, public accommodations, and employment. They investigate complaints of discrimination in those three areas and enforce the Missouri Human Rights Act. In addition, they also work with the independent MLK Commission. The State Board of Mediation is led by Acting Chair Logan Hobbs, has 1.5 FTE, and is GR-funded. They work with public employers and employees on the designation of employee groups who wish to be represented by unions, hold certification elections, and certify the election results. Our appellate body, the Labor Industrial Relations Commission, chaired by Rodney Campbell, has 13.59 FTE, and is funded by a combination of GR, federal funds, and other funds. The LIRC handles appeals from administrative decisions and workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, tort victims' compensation cases, and prevailing wage rate objections. As Governor Kehoe mentioned in his State of State address, he expects his administration to work at the speed of business. To meet that objective, our focus as a department is to utilize data-driven solutions to better meet the needs of our citizens and to prepare and address the challenges before us. This is not only an emphasis on program administration, but also solution innovation, delivery of benefits and services, and also a real effort to provide impactful improvements and support our state workforce. Dillard is thankful for the investments Governor Kehoe has proposed to improve compensation, benefits, and professional development opportunities that make a difference in state workforce retention, recruitment, succession planning, and professionalism. This all provides resourcing and support to make sure that we can deliver the best, good, consistent citizen service. I'm proud of the work that we've done and are doing better to serve people across Missouri, improve our program administration and access through technology, as well as foster a culture of professionalism and excellence in our workforce. I will now present the department's FY26 budget request with all NDIs that were in the Governor's FY26 budget. At this time, I invite Julie Kuhn to assist me with continuing with the budget presentations, and we can answer any of your specific questions as we go through the budget. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you for being here today, and I appreciated the conversation we had offline, and I want to tell you how much I appreciate the fact that the department is attempting to right-size the budget from previous year's expenditures, and I want to publicly thank you for the change in attitudes. I'm not saying it changed only this year, but concerning workers' compensation payments and the way in which those are held to the standard according to the law has not always been the case, and I'm grateful for all the hard work that the department has done in the very precise way in which this particular budget has been presented thus far, and would not expect anything less from a department that's all about making business work correctly, so I appreciate you so very much. Thank you. Okay. I believe we can begin in the budget book now. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, committee members. My name is Julie Kuhn. I'm the chief fiscal officer for the Missouri Department of Labor and Industrial Relations.Before we get started with the department's budget book, I would like to cover the department's flexibility requests and then summarize the overall core reductions that will be found in the FY 26 budget. The department's requesting flexibility of 10% for our Division of Labor Standards programs, the State Board of Mediation, Missouri Commission on Human Rights, the Labor and Industrial Relations Commission, and as well in FY 26, the department's requested 10% flexibility for our Division of Workers' Compensation funds. The department's budget also includes 25% flexibility for the Division of Employment Security and then FY 26 is requesting the same percentage for the Division of Labor Standards on-site program. The department's budget includes overall core reductions in FY 26 of $22 million in federal funds, federal and other funds, and $200,000 of general revenue that we will mention as we present them in the budget today. The department's first new decision item can be found on page 2 of your budget book. This is the new decision item for the statewide time of service adjustment for full-time employees, includes a 1% increase for every 2 years of state service, capped at 10% for 20 years of state service. The governor's recommendation for this new decision item totals $838,451 of general revenue, federal, and other funds. On page 9 of your budget book is the second new decision item. This is a general revenue pickup for the statewide pay plan just mentioned. This request is needed from general revenue due to solvency issues or federal funds that just have not been received through our administrative grants. The governor's recommendation for this new decision item totals $1.7 million of general revenue. Our first core item on page 13 is the core for the director and staff. The governor's recommendation totals $6,088,097 and $51.65 FTE from federal funds. There's no general revenue in this core and there are no changes from last year. On page 20 is the new decision item for the dolar director salary increase. This increase provides the appropriation authority to increase the salary for our department director. The total governor's recommendation is for $10,000 of other federal funds. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. I just want to, don't want to put you in a weird spot. We've done this with all of them, at least I have. This was not at your request, is that correct? That is correct. This is, I think, a part of the overall pay plan increase in terms of just making sure that the department director is at a level that's comparable, if not at market, with with the other increases for state service. There are several directors so far that have sat in that chair and gotten to this part of their budget and I want to give everybody the opportunity. You all did not petition the governor for this, this is his plan? Correct. All right, thank you. The next two core items are for our administrative fund transfers. They're found on pages 22 and 29. The governor's recommendation is a combined total of $16,004,794 and includes some core reallocations between federal and other funds to align the authority with the plan spending based on timesheet data in agreement with our approved cost allocation plan. On pages 35 is the Labor Industrial Relations Commission. The governor's recommendation for this core is $1.2 million of general revenue federal and other funds and $13.59 FTE. Again, this core item includes some core reallocations between federal and other funds to align the spending in agreement with our approved cost allocation plan. The next core is the Division of Labor Standards Administration on page 42. The governor's recommendation for this core totals $898,263 of general revenue federal and other funds and $12.99 FTE. There are no changes from last year's budget. On page 51 is the Division of Labor Standards on-site safety and health consultation program. The governor's recommendation for this core totals $1.3 million and $17 FTE. This program is funded mostly from a grant which is a 90% federal, 10% match and has no changes from last year. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thanks, sir. On page 42 and 43, first of all, I appreciate the fact that there is GR left in lapse. We're not spending every GR dollar we can get our hands on and stockpiling federal and other as we've seen in so many other cases, so thank you for that. However, we've pretty consistently been leaving lapse on this line and the previous line as well. Are we not utilizing it effectively? Do we do we need to I mean what what's the what's the reasoning behind the lapse? Some of this in this program, the Division of Labor Standards Administration, it also includes our research and analysis program which is funded with a grant. The federal grant dollars don't always, they fluctuate from year to year, so therefore sometimes we can lapse the authority. We've also had a vacancy in that program last fiscal year, so there was a reason for lapse there as well. And then on the other funds line, this is a specific fee fund that we collect and we don't know it has very specific uses and so therefore sometimes you know there's an additional authority there. Yeah, I'm more questioning the GR, you know, we're I'm glad you're doing it, don't misunderstand, don't take this as a as an encouragement to go spend it all, but if we're consistently leaving GR on the bottom line, we eventually have to ask are we are we just simply appropriating too much for this particular line? And I'd be shocked if the answer is yes, I think we are. So this that the GR funds like our prevailing wage, minimum wage, different areas, we've had some vacancies, we've had some turnover, so there's I wouldn't say that there's a that's a normal trend that's going to continue, you know, decreases in travel or training, different things like that. It's a combination of things. Okay, thank you. Next core item on page 59 is the Division of Labor Standards Mine and Cave Safety Program. The governor's recommendation for this core total $778,153 and 7.23 FTE of general revenue, federal, and other funds and has no changes from last year. Next on page 67 is the State Board of Mediation. The governor's recommendation is for $130,931 and 1.5 FTE, no changes from last year. Representative Fogle, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you. Is the Board of Mediation currently, do they have a quorum? No, we are short one person. And how long has that been the case? Since last July or August. Of 24 or? Correct, 24. Do we know, do we have any anticipated estimation of when that position will be filled and when the board will be able to meet? You know, again, there have been some recommendations for that, but I believe that the filling of that last spot was left to the new administration to consider how to fill it. Okay, and do you have a timeline of when the new administration is planning to fill that? I know there are, this is a question I get asked frequently in the labor world, is wanting to make sure the Board of Mediation can meet and that, you know, people have what they need to proceed. Do we have any estimated timeline on when the new administration plans to fill that vacant spot? Certainly, we've had conversations with them about all of our board and commission needs, and this one in particular, actually I may think this may be September that it was, so I think the timing was actually shorter in terms of it being vacant. But given the rest of the workload, we've been able to keep up pretty much everything, so there's not really been any sort of delay in terms of services being provided. So if there's a certification election or anything like that going on, we've certainly been able to conduct those and keep that side of the business going. Okay. There's really nothing, we don't have a backlog of particular cases that are waiting for quorum to make a decision on. Okay, so if I'm hearing that from constituents or from labor unions that reside in my house district, who should I be directing them to? You can certainly let us know at the department level or with Logan Hobbs, the acting chair. We're certainly taking any parties who are interested in serving on that, and I think the governor's office has their boards and commissions site too, and certainly if they're interested, please make sure to fill out an application on that website and just let us know and we can follow up with the governor's office. Okay, so what I'm hearing is even though the board can't meet and there's not a quorum, that doesn't change, I'm sorry, I'm trying to make eye contact with you but it's hard, it's awkward, that doesn't change the services or the the pace of which issues are getting worked out even though the board can't meet? Correct, because we don't have a volume of work that requires a quorum to actually make a decision on right now, so pretty much the day-to-day work, things that the community needs for us to do are still being done. Okay, thank you. The next core item is for the Division of Workers' Compensation Administration found on page 75. The governor's recommendation for this core totals $11.2 million and $139.25 FTE, all funded from the Workers' Compensation Administration Fund. There's no general revenue in this core and no changes from last year. On page 83 is a new decision item for the Administrative Law Judge salary increase. This new decision item is increasing the authority to adjust the salaries for the Administrative Law Judges in order to align their salaries with the Associate Circuit Court Judge salaries. Can you tell me why the governor recommended this but the department did not? So the ALJs are considered statutory employees, so the governor's pay plan only deals with individuals who are not in that statutory employee category, so this is why this is a separate NDI on that. It's also something again that, you know, in conversation with them this is something that would bring us back into the schedule here. But I guess that just we didn't know at the time and for October 1 is thatIt's so to align with associate circuit court judges' wages per statute. So there's a RISMO that suggests that the LJ should make what circuit judges make? Right. So in Chapter 287, it basically lays out that administrative law judges are to be paid 90% of what that circuit court judge schedule is. I see. And so since there is a pay plan request in House Bill 12 related to the Citizens' Commission, since circuit judges are paid as a percentage of their federal counterparts, you didn't know that for department requests, but that is now known, and so that's why it's included at the governor's recommendation? It is. I mean, again, we talk through the overall salary in terms of the appropriation that's provided to each year, and that we do make those recommendations in terms of the salary and adherence to the statutory request. Thank you. The next score is the Division of Workers' Compensation Second Injury Fund payments. It can be found on page 85. The governor's recommendation for this score is for $75,060,833 from the Second Injury Fund. There's no general revenue in this score. It does include a $10 million core reduction due to the decreasing Second Injury Fund claim payments. Next. Thank you for that. You may continue. So we always like to talk about the instances where we think that should be happening. We don't see it, and so I want to congratulate you and appreciate your efforts in looking at that yourself and taking the initiative. The next score is the Second Injury Fund refunds. It can be found on page 91. The governor's recommendation for this score is for $500,000, no general revenue, and no changes from last year. Representative Chappell, do you recognize for an inquiry? All right. So, as I understand it, this Second Injury Fund is financed by surcharge on employers who pay the workers' compensation premium, as well as self-employed individuals, and the surcharge is capped at up to 3 percent, and I think that's what the document before us says. It is capped at 3 percent. But there has been an extension sought and granted of 1 percent additional surcharge authority for 2026? Through 2026, correct. And so, yeah, we've not needed to use that supplemental surcharge in the last two years based on the population and where the balance of the fund is right now. What is the balance of the fund? I don't have a Form 9 on that one, I'm sorry. It's all right. $52.8 million. Awesome. $52.8 million. Well, I'm glad we're not using the surcharge. So this particular line has been appropriated at $500,000 every year for the last three, at least, but we've only had application for $6,800, $6,900 in the last three years for a refund. Is that what I'm seeing? Page 60, or 92, rather? Could you repeat that? I'm sorry. We've had appropriation to allow for refunds up to $500,000 every year for the last three years, but in those three years, we've only actually had refunds handed out at $6,900, and we're lapsing in whole or in part somewhere around 95 percent one year and 100 percent every year thereafter. Is this something we need to look at, maybe adjust downward? I mean, refunds are very unpredictable, so we never really can account or plan for how many refunds we make issue. We wouldn't want to have the authority, you know, be short the authority, but sure, we can definitely take a look at that. Do we know when the last time was that we had more than $300,000 in refunds in a single fiscal year? No. We'd have to take a closer look on that, and again, this is important because it's getting money back to the employers. I don't want to slow that down at all. Right. But we can certainly get you some more data in terms of what it's looking like. The fund has $52 million in it, and we just don't seem to be utilizing this aspect of it very much. If there's something we need to tell the employers, let us help you with that, and if it's just something we need to readjust and say maybe it doesn't need to be quite that much in a single fiscal year, then, you know, let's look at that as well. Okay. We'll get some historical data on that. That'd be great. Thank you. All right. All right. The next core is the Division of Workers' Compensation Line of Duty Payment and Transfer Core. They're found on pages 97 and 103. The total budget request is for $400,000. It does include a core reduction of $200,000 in order to align the authority with anticipated spend. On pages 109 is the Tort Victims' Compensation Core. The governor's recommendation totals $150 million for compensation payments. There's no changes from last year. Along with this core program includes a basic civil legal services transfer. It's found on page 116. The governor's recommendations total $1.3 million and no changes from last year. So you look at on 111 and look at the past few fiscal years, you know, from 2023 to 2024, we jumped up from $93,700,000 in authority to $150 million. Expenditures certainly jumped as well. If I recall correctly, that was due to the J&J settlement, not exclusively, primarily driven as far as that increase. Obviously, that's been paid out, at least it was in FY24. The first question I have is, though, you look on page 115, for FY25 actuals as of 129, there have been actually zero expenditures year-to-date. So I don't know if it's something that happens at the end of the fiscal year. Is this like a one-time payment that just happens somewhere within the fiscal year? Or what's happening in this current fiscal year as it relates to this Tort Victims' Compensation? Because of a court case that's been filed, there's an injunction in place, so we were not able to make any payments for the 2024 calendar year, 2023. So we're actually waiting for that. So there's money in the fund, but we have not been able to make any sort of payments out. So is that related specifically to the J&J? Or is that something about against Dohler specifically that with our Tort Victims' Compensation fund? What is the nature of the litigation? So the nature of litigation. So J&J was the case that allowed for the punitive, produced the punitive damages that then were deposited into the fund, right? So we had that big deposit. Cases were filed under statute. Basically, the payment out is, it can be a maximum of $300,000 based on the actual individual claim, right? That's the maximum. So in looking at that, if there are years where the appropriation doesn't allow for that maximum, then it's prorated. So there is a case pending because individuals in that particular year felt like they should have gotten more money, that we should have emptied the fund, that that was the obligation of the department to do that, and that then subsequent claims would have just had to wait as we have historically had to do when the fund has not had a balance to be able to pay out benefits. And so the fund has to have a minimum of $100,000 in the account before any sort of benefits can be paid. So the department is a party to this litigation? So yes. So the suit is against us in terms of the payments that were previously made, and now it's preventing us from making future payments. Okay. Didn't realize that. Appreciate that. That's interesting. So Johnson & Johnson specifically, has that been exhausted or what's the, because presumably I mean that was injected and at some point that's, I mean maybe there'll be other, something else that comes in, and so maybe the level of expenditures, maybe you wouldn't see a notice of change, but as far as that Johnson & Johnson, I mean that's not, there's a finite period of time which that's all going to be expended. Has that already occurred or what is the projections or the timeline on that? Because that was a pretty large increase. At the time we got the deposit, the initial estimate was it was going to take us 10 years to expend the fund, but we have been quite prolific in being able to pretty much empty it out. So once the injunction is lifted and any current claims that are deemed eligible for payment, there will be no funds left in the fund until the next big deposit comes in. Do we know what kind of the outstanding claims are, what that potential liability is? So what I'm getting at here is, do we really need, do we need $150 million for FY26 or do we need something, you know, is that the right number? We certainly obviously want people to be able to, if there's claims to be paid out, you know, to be able to pay them out. I just didn't know if that has, if that number has decreased over the past couple of years. Right. Currently the balance is at $125 million, right, $125 million, almost $126 million. So pretty much once we go through all the claims that have been deemed eligible, it will be expended completely. Which if that injunction was lifted, that could potentially even happen within this current fiscal year, theoretically maybe, I don't know how long all that takes.for fiscal year 2026 it sounds like if the number was a hundred and thirty million we wouldn't break anything is that what I'm hearing you think that's accurate yeah it's based on the current balance in there and again we don't have a sense of whether another big deposit will come right generally it's you know the claims have to come in and they're based on that calendar year through December 31 right and then we usually process them complete that analysis by June of the following year and then payments that are are then sent out generally in September of that following year so yeah because if there's no more litigation and deposits that's in a similar nature I mean we could potentially go to zero within a year or two until there's something new that comes along I mean that's theoretically possible not dissimilar to how many it looks like we had three point seven million dollars in authority in FY 22 I don't know if that was a placeholder or you know something but it seems like it you're either we're either paying it out or we're not I guess it seems like how that goes feast or famine so very good okay thank you that's very helpful appreciate the analysis there all right the next core is on page 122 this is the Division of Employment Security Administration the total governor's recommended core is for eighty one point four million dollars of general revenue federal and other funds and five hundred and four point seven two FTE and FY 26 the core does include a twelve million dollar reduction and federal funds due to the ending of some cares act administration dollars on pages 130 is the funding for the employment and training payments core the total governor's recommendations for eleven million dollars in federal funds there's no changes from last year and no GR in this core on pages 136 is a special employment security fund core the governor's recommendation total seven point two million dollars of other funds and 15 FTE no changes from last year and no general revenue representative Chapel you recognize for an inquiry thanks sir so back on 130 and 131 this is this is another line item where we have a significant amount of lapses a percentage of the appropriation and appear to have had for some time is are we is there's this line being underutilized something we need to do differently do we need to look at perhaps right sizing this part of their budget as well so this is another area where we receive grant funds like disaster unemployment insurance benefits disasters are pretty unpredictable so then you know the trade assistance we we don't know what kind of federal funds we're going to receive and therefore you know the authority this kind of a lane aligns back with where we were pre pandemic so we had increased the authority due to shared work during the pandemic and this kind of aligns that back so so this goes back there was it was roughly 11 million dollars per year prior to 2020 so and were we spending were we spending more money in those years as well we can look I'm not 100% sure I do believe we had more grant funds we were receiving back then for the like the trade assistance programs and unemployment benefits but I'd have to look into that currently they haven't reauthorized a trade assistance program so I know that's been on deck with Congress for the last few sessions so that's one area we worry if we would have gotten money and then anytime there is disaster unemployment assistance that comes in if there's a flood there's a tornado those things like that again this is the authority where we have the flexibility to accept those federal dollars to be able to spend them sure I understand thank you next core is the war on terror core with the governor's recommendation of $40,000 of other funds there's no general revenue and no paid no changes the next core on page 148 is the debt offset escrow core the governor's recommendation total 16 million dollars of other funds there's no general revenue and no changes from last year the Missouri Commission on Human Rights can be found on page 154 the governor's recommendation totals 1.6 million dollars of general revenue and federal funds and twenty five point seven FTE there's no changes from last year representative Brown you recognize for an inquiry Thank You mr. chairman this is probably more of an offline question I'm just becoming familiar with the Human Rights Commission I have a constituent that's going through that process now wonder if somebody could maybe come by my office walk me through the steps of from how a complaint started to timeline just for my own information certainly we'll make that appointment with you sir thank you next core is the MLK jr. Commission celebration Commission the total governor's recommendation is for sixty thousand three hundred dollars of general revenue and other funds and no changes from last year and lastly on page 167 is the legal expense fund transfer for a dollar and this concludes the department's budget presentation thank you for that is there any additional inquiries questions for the Missouri Department of Labor Industrial Relations seeing none thank you for being with us today we appreciate your time that will conclude the department budget presentation for the Missouri Department of Labor Industrial Relations fiscal year 2026 budget request we will now move to the Missouri Department of Economic Development director thank you for being with us and please come forward and feel free to provide us with any opening comments if you you have them we'll see you know how quickly we get questions or inquiries and then we'll soon enough begin in your budget book good afternoon mr. chair members the committee my name is Michelle Hadaway I'm the director for the Missouri Department of Economic Development the department is focused on providing businesses the resources they need in order to achieve success and build sustainable growth strengthening our state's communities promoting Missouri is an ideal place to visit and help develop a talented and skilled workforce and maintaining a high quality of life for our fellow Missourians please know that my team and I are always happy to meet one-on-one to talk through how we are continuing to help Missourians prosper if you turn to the pay plan on page two and seven if it's okay I'll forgo those as those have been traditional with the other directors so we will start hearing from Lori Becklenburg and other DED leaders will come up to present their divisions budget but we will start on page 10 thank you director Hadaway thank you mr. chairman and members of the committee again Lori Becklenburg I'm the division director for regional engagement it's a pleasure to be here today for your awareness the regional engagement division serves as a first and primary contact for local partners business and community customers as they ask that access and navigate state federal and partner agency resources this division created at a department's reorganization in 2019 consists of project managers and international trade specialists and regional teams across the state to service those communities where they reside to matter to better meet the needs and coordinate resources to help those Missouri businesses and communities as director Hadaway said we'll begin on page 10 which is the core decision item for the regional engagement division total budget is three million five hundred fifty seven thousand three hundred and twenty eight representing both personal service and expense and equipment please flip to page 18 for a new fund switch item this item is for the regional engagement division is requesting a fund switch from federal to general revenue this request is for three hundred and fifty five thousand dollars to fund five regional engagement FTE and existing filled FTE that we have this funding replaces the federal workforce innovation and Opportunity Act otherwise known as WIOA and one-time apprenticeship funds that we received this fiscal year to support the regional team across Missouri not funding these positions keep five FTE unfilled and may lead to layoffs of existing FTE if we're unable to fill any additional dollars that we have from one-time funding this year without these dollars there will be fewer opportunities for businesses to access state and federal programs and less opportunities for our partners to grow within their communities moving on please flip to page we have an inquiry on that one representative Chappell you have an inquiry may proceed thanks sir good morning afternoon sorry so on on this on page 18 how many staff are currently in each region do we know that yes so we have the international team which has teams all across Missouri so the international trade team so they have one two three four five on their team and then the north region has to st. Louis has three st. Kansas City has three southwest has two central has two and southeast has three so we're essentially increasing it by 25% across the state with five more is that correct that's correct and if the regions are already established in those machinations am I correct in understanding that this includes a supervisor it does not this this is all non-supervisory staff that we're asking for correct okay all right thank you sir thank you ma'am going on to page 21 can you help me on this one on the with the NDI and just looking at your budget book right now the you got the fund switch and it's 355 and general revenue and I certainly understand the what the explanation there is with the with the we owe a dollars but on the core for FY 24 it does look like you collapsed three hundred and eighteen thousand dollars if I'm looking at that correctly so is that we don't think that's going to be the case in fiscal year 2025 correct so what we did we had regularturnover in fiscal year 24 and then because this NDI was presented last year and the funds were stayed in federal funds and we wanted to make sure because we had existing staff that were tied to those funds that we knew we were no longer going to be getting we moved those positions to be general revenue generated so we didn't have to lay off anyone so we with the uncertainty of getting the dollars last year we wanted to make sure that we didn't have to have any layoffs have newly people hired and then have to lay off people that have been on our already on our team so that yeah I understand that but we I mean this is the appropriation amount is the same for 25 as it was for 24 and in 24 you lapse that three hundred eighteen thousand dollars of general revenue so I'm just trying to obviously you're asking for more than that but well and I'm sorry the general revenue that we're asking for with the new decision item it's just for PS we are not asking for additional E&E because we feel like we already have any that would cover the additional team members that we would be getting okay and then on what is the and there isn't any on the on the NDI it's just PS but on the core there is a little you know about seven hundred fifty thousand dollars of PSD what is that what's the program distribution with those regional engagement teams because I certainly understand you know they're out in the communities and I mean that's that's people and then obviously there's going to be E&E you know with their you know equipment they might have or expenses and transportation so on so forth but what's that I it's on page 10 what I was looking at what's that seven hundred and forty nine thousand six dollars in PSD I was other 741 representative we don't know off the top of our heads we'll have to follow back up on that if that's okay or in we can have our team look into it while we continue to present let's do that we'll come back at the end of the book we'll make a note and we'll see if we get that identified anytime thank you yeah please continue okay thank you okay we'll be going to page 21 this is a core decision item for our international trade and investment offices these offices assist Missouri businesses with international sales promotion and foreign market entry strategies they also provide investment strategies to international investors looking to locate in Missouri total budget is one and a half million dollars and is all funded through the economic development advancement fund this is also unchanged from last year representative Fogel you have an inquiry on this you may proceed yeah thank you I remember last year having a brief discussion about how we closed our office in China have we seen and I know there are so many dynamics it's probably hard to isolate this but have we seen a reduced capacity of partnership or of trade with that office closing or what what is the landscape look like over the last year and a half since we closed that office I can get you actual numbers okay but we did not have very many at the time when we were looking at doing this we only had had a couple recent work orders which is what generates those those discussions with that office and we've not had any sense okay and we've had a couple inquiries for looking into and those are been able to be covered by the other offices that we have thank you okay moving on to page 27 is the request for our business recruitment and marketing services total budget is three and a half million dollars and it is funded from the economic development advancement fund and will not impact general revenue this is same appropriation as the current fiscal year and unchanged from last year next is item on page 32 this core request is for 168 thousand nine hundred and forty five dollars to cover the program dues for the Delta Regional Authority otherwise known as DRA no change from last year this results in generating dollars for the state the Delta Regional Authority there are 29 counties in southeast portion of Missouri that the DRA itself covers eight states so we're very fortunate to be able to have these funds coming into this state we total received in FY 24 our dues allowed us to receive almost eight million dollars in funding to Missouri and with that that finishes up my my items well as soon as we get that answer we'll come up and answer it yep we'll just continue through the budget book okay you good morning chairman and members of the committee my name is Brooklyn Wasser I am the division director of business opportunities and if you could please turn to page 37 this is the core decision item for business and community solutions divisions which houses both our community solutions and business opportunities teams that administer the bulk of the business and community focused programs within economic development there is no change from last year on this one here you look on page 30 39 over the and of course it's just got three years information here but they've been pretty significant laps you know across all funds general revenue federal and other and then you know looking on page 43 with the actuals at least seems like it's on pace to be pretty similar to what it has been so just curious if the you know the budgeted authority on these funds if you think that's actually reflective of the of the need of this this division I thank you for your question so the fiscal year 24 laps and our core funding includes a few line items one of them being for Park Street development where the grantee did not submit the documentation needed for final reimbursement prior to the fiscal year and then in addition to those line items we do have some personal service and expense and equipment laps from natural attrition and the time it takes to backfill those positions however we are working to maintain stable staffing so you think you're gonna get staffed up next year or in this the rest of this fiscal year what do you think the kind of trajectory is that is our hope I would also say that within this is a lot of federal dollars for the authority so depending on rain you will see other lapses within CDBG and stuff depending on when those reimbursements come in we'll need the authority to make sure that we can reimburse those federal dollars yeah there is a million of general revenue general revenue laughs out of you know let's see the request for 26 is 2.5 million general revenue total so yeah just just referring to the PS what's that are you referring to the PS would be let's see here that's it's it's 2.25 3 million PS 280,000 and E&E 19,000 PS D they're on 37 that's the FY 23 or 26 request I assume FY 25 is very similar this core item I don't see any core reductions so I assume that's there are we do have a couple FTE that were given for the child care that were given in fiscal year 24 if I'm thinking correctly but that legislation did not pass it has been proposed again last year and then this year so we have not hired for those positions waiting for that bill to continue to pass and if it does we'll be able to ramp up very quickly okay and that's in this division how many FTE you remind me of it do you remember how many that was I there was five it's five okay well that's provide some at least portion of the explanation I'm not sure what the salary obviously was on those but that's be fairly significant okay all right thank you for that and representative Chapel you have something on this you may proceed with an inquiry well you all said something that I found interesting in response to the chair's question so part of the reason for the lapse was because grantees or at least one grantee didn't give you the complete information does the department typically reach out to the grantee and ask for that information you don't just let it slide no we reach out several times and then ask for essentially we've we've improved this process over seven years as more line items have been given into our budget our goal is to make sure we can get out those dollars very timely so that we're not pushed up against the fiscal year deadline but yes we reach out multiple times we educate ahead of time we ask for information around the project to make sure it's in scope and it qualifies based off what was put into the budget but also depending on the sourcing of funding and then we put together an MOU that I signed the applicant signs and then from there it's done on a reimbursement basis yeah we heard testimony recently where the department had not considered going and asking for the incomplete information and I just you know kudos that's good that's what you should do thank you thank you page 45 is the new decision item for staff to deploy legislation which was not recommended by the governor page 48 is the core decision item for erroneous payments or overpayments made to Economic Development Advancement Fund known as EDAF and there is no change from last year page 53 is the tourism infrastructure program core decision item and apart from the reduction of the Missouri Valley Youth Services program line item there is no change from fiscal year 25 the Missouri Valley Youth Services program was brought forward by the General Assembly as a one-time appropriation with 500,000 ongoing which was not recommended by the governor representative Fogle you have an inquiry you may proceed thank you quickly going back to page 45 I know those components are things that the General Assembly passed or you know regulations that we put on you guys are you just absorbing those responsibilities in other rolesand you don't need the department doesn't feel like you need that funding correct yes we're gonna do with what we have okay okay thank you for asking on page 58 is the Kansas City improvements core decision item brought forward by the General Assembly as a one-time appropriation and there is no spinning recommendation for fiscal year 26 page 63 is Hammonds field core decision item brought forward by the General Assembly as a one-time appropriation and there is no spending recommendation for fiscal year 26 and that concludes my first part of presentation we'll have Paul Eisenstein come up and go over high lever some other additional items hey good afternoon I'm Paul Eisenstein and I'm the senior director of operations at DED I'll be going through some of the high-tech economic development items that we participate here at DED and part of this includes reshoring some of these high-tech economic development efforts into Missouri so on page 68 you'll see the Missouri Technology Corporation the Missouri Technology Corporation or MTC is a public-private partnership it was created by the General Assembly it's focused on entrepreneurship and helping ensure that new and emerging high-tech companies grow right here in Missouri MTC has a two-pronged approach they focus on ecosystem development as well as they operate a state-sponsored venture capital program on page 68 you'll see an 8.5 million dollar a general I'm sorry I didn't intend to cut off your explanation I thought you're moving to the next item so please go ahead and conclude yeah so well on page 68 you'll see the 8.5 million general revenue transfer to the Missouri Technology Investment Fund and then on page 73 you'll see the corresponding spending authority recommendation of 8.5 million dollars and this is unchanged from last year so my question is on 60 69 can you help us understand what happened in in fiscal year 2024 remind us there was seven so generally in 22 although boy the numbers really increased from 22 to 23 and 24 but with the spending authority generally they were expended and then there was 7.2 million dollars in unexpended funds for fiscal year 2024 what was the phenomenon there yeah you know yeah great question sir so in FY 25 so it was determined by the General Assembly to move the the active pharmaceutical ingredient or API reshoring as well as the semiconductor reshoring from MTC's effort that's moved to DED's budget rather than MTC's in FY 25 and so what that meant is for FY 24 well so that's right 20 it was appropriated to MTC it was not expended and we don't have to get into that now and so for whatever reason and so then it was then appropriated just to DED yes and we'll get to that in a second yes sir so that's what that one was okay thank you for the reminder and those two programs will be on page 87 and 92 so we'll go through those represented black you recognize for an inquiry Thank You mr. chair how does the MTC distribute these funds our application submitted or the earmark for particular function or how's that work yes sir great question so there's there's two different types of activities there's a there's a state sponsored venture capital program where their private businesses high-tech companies will apply for co-investments from MTC and MTC will fund those those high-tech high-growth companies there's also a ecosystem building so they'll work with entrepreneurial support organizations and issue grants through competitive process to those entrepreneurial support organizations across the state they can apply for funds and they've got a couple programs there that help those communities build their entrepreneurial capacity so between the split of those two tracks do you know what how the money's been spent yes absolutely so you're referring to like FY 24 about the high-tech and then you talked about the locally codigo so how much money has been what percentage of money is going into the high-tech what percent of money is going into the codigo yeah sure great question so if I can I've got the most recent budget so of this appropriation for FY 25 for the core grant programs is about 5.3 million dollars that's that's been planned for those those includes there's a Missouri it's called Mobeck building entrepreneurial capacity there's a physical infrastructure and regional node there's also some pilot grant programs run investor education it's about 5.3 million dollars is going in into that there's another seven hundred fifty thousand dollars going into direct investments there's some money for Missouri Enterprise and as well as there's an operational reserve fund and that's all part of this 8.5 million yes so 5.8 million or whatever you said is basically codigo well yes it's for those entrepreneurial support organizations now there's also the state sponsored venture capital investment those are federal funds those are on page 97 we'll get to that in the book as well but those are that's where the permit most of MTC's venture capital investments come through those state those federal SS BCI funds so the local organizations that would like to have some support for their their local efforts you say there's a competitive grant process yes sir and is that described on your web page or someplace so somebody that might be interested would know how to apply for those absolutely there's the Missouri Technology Corporation's website they describe the different cycles that are coming up and anyone who is a welcome to apply and do you know when the next grant cycle is going to be MTC's executive director would know that we can bring them up if you'd like or we can send out that information or maybe sometime in the process here's that that information might manage magically appear sure the director great let's if we've got them here let's go ahead and bring up the director if we can if you unless you just want to move on representative is that fine let's bring them up if we got the answer at hand let's go ahead and I think the committee'd like to know I would you make sure that green lights illuminated there there's a button to push thank you sorry about that Jack Scott is the executive director Missouri Technology Corporation so representative is it is it black I believe on Monday we sent a newsletter out actually to all of the representatives that highlights our programs but broadly looking at our grant based support to expand on capacity we launch grants on a nearly quarterly basis because I think we're managing currently five different grant programs at the moment so when your question of when does the grant open it depends on the grant that you're looking at most of them open on a yearly basis so we just closed our Missouri building entrepreneurial capacity which is our main grant program that opens in the fall we just awarded those this spring we have our physical infrastructure grant program in our regional grant program opening that information is detailed on your website I presume it's on our website it also goes out a newsletter it's also available on our social media so yes representative black if there's a business or an entity you would like us to meet with and educate on these programs and talk through those cycles we are more than happy to okay perfect you know we would be happy to follow up and then we can connect to the information thank you thanks is there anything additional for MTC represent Murray you may proceed with an inquiry yeah just a quick inquiry one of the great pastimes in the Murray household is watching Shark Tank so I would even though you say it's a competitive grant process I'm just imagine that it's just Missouri's version of Shark Tank but just real quick I just wanted to say I appreciate the program if you could speak to any type of like metrics or success outcome for the companies that you all have funded and tying that back to like the benefit for the state of Missouri that would be great you say you send out a newsletter does that newsletter have that type of information represent Murray so one quick clarification so all of our programs are competitive based our ecosystem building is grant based our direct support of high growth potential companies that's equity based so it is actually very much like Shark Tank competitive you have to fill out an application but you do pitch our investment committee and our investment committee gathers and makes a recommendation so it's not far off from Shark Tank regarding metrics on our state sponsor venture capital program I believe if I have my numbers correct we've invested 53 million dollars to date into over 160 companies Missouri-based companies those companies have raised 2.1 billion dollars in additional private capital being brought into the state and they've created over 8,000 jobs okay thank you I mean he's not mr. wonderful but right who's your favorite character representative we gotta go Cuban you have an inquiry yes you may proceed yeah I'm just kind of curious here and you mentioned Shark Tank so ring doorbell guys invested in Northeast Missouri which is kind of cool I'm just curious how much considering that Missouri's 37% rural and 2% nationwide venture capital goes to rural how is MTC basically bridge that gap between folks who have venture capital in urban and suburban areas versus the folks out in rural who just flat-out don't so the first thing it's you have to look at the investment vehicle and whether it aligns with the business seeking the funding unfortunately the way venture capital works it it's really only best suited for high growth potential companies you know if you're running a small or a traditional medium-sized business venture capital is not the way that you should be funding your growth it just doesn't align so one of the issues when we talk about how are we getting venture capital out into non st. Louis or non Kansas City areaareas. One of the challenges is there aren't as many high growth potential opportunities out there, so there aren't as many opportunities for companies or entrepreneurs that are interested in venture capital to fund their business. Going through, we're actually, we have a very good geographic diversity in our idea fund. If I recall off the top of my head, I believe about 50% of the venture capital in Missouri happens in St. Louis. Let me pull my numbers up on that. I actually have that. I want to make sure I get this right. We'll pull the exact numbers for you, but we're actually providing and closing more venture capital investments outside of St. Louis and Kansas City than what the public market is doing. Aside from Springfield, I'm aware of one in Cape Girardeau. What other communities, and it's called Missouri Technology Corporation, not St. Louis, not Kansas City, not Columbia, not Springfield, so if we're going to subsidize the folks who already have venture capital, what is the point of the program if we're not bridging out to the entire state of Missouri? 114 counties, four of which are getting funding. So, Columbia is also in there. We've got several. So, as I said, the current version of Missouri Technology Corporation was created following the last pandemic. The idea was how do we diversify the state's economy to make it more resilient? I believe it was Governor Nixon, and I believe it was Executive Director Jason Hall, who came up with the concept of, well, we need to fund high-growth potential companies. We need to diversify our state's economy so that we can be more resilient and we can be more technology and we can be more innovation-driven. Those types of companies require very specific resources, including resources to things like venture capital. So, I wouldn't say that we're subsidizing venture capital. We're investing alongside venture capitalists who are taking the same equity that venture capitalists are doing. I think MTC is a very great tool that you can use for economic development, specifically for driving and generating innovation and high-growth potential entrepreneurship. But MTC is not necessarily the best tool for all entrepreneurship, and I would also note that we were not created to support all entrepreneurship. So, taking something like a state-sponsored venture capital program, of which, by the way, we're a national leader in, we're one of the best state-sponsored venture capital programs in all of the U.S. And saying we should be doing non-venture capital investments with it just doesn't seem to work because that's not the goal of the program. I mean, I'll add, our investments awarded aligned with the applications we receive. So, if we're not receiving applications from certain areas, it's very difficult for us to make investments in certain areas. Just to follow up, let me repeat it. Thirty-seven percent of the state is rural. Two percent of venture capital is rural. What percentage of venture capital that comes from your outfit goes to rural? So, you're saying 32 percent of all venture capital goes to rural? No. I said 37 percent of the population is rural. Two percent of the venture capital goes to rural. That's nationwide. So what is the Missouri solution to this problem for Missourians through Missouri Technology Corporation? How are you bridging the gap between where we are as a state and where we should be, assuming that the goal of Missouri Technology Corporation is to serve all of Missouri, 114 counties, not the ones who are getting the bulk of the funding, who already have venture capital aplenty? That's the problem. I would say they don't have venture capital aplenty. St. Louis and Kansas City don't have venture capital? Not at the level that they need. Otherwise, you wouldn't need state-sponsored venture capital. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. Anything, Representative Murray, you'd like to take a second round? Please proceed. And just, I'll keep it quick. So, you mentioned $2.1 billion as an economic benefit, and you say it was around the equity-based model. Does that equity ownership reside with MTC or the state of Missouri? And where would I find that bucket of money? I mean, you have a lot of budget books, and where would I be able to find that benefit? So, MTC holds the equity in those. So, in the $53 million that were invested in those 160 companies, MTC holds the equity. When the returns come to MTC, we're then able to use them for programmatic purposes. We use them to launch grant programs when funding from the state is lean. We use them for operations when some of our premieres when funding from the state is lean. We also use them to make additional venture capital investments. Okay. And I'm new, so where would I find that in all the books? And maybe one of my colleagues can help me with that offline, but I would appreciate that if you had it. I'll reach out. Okay. Thank you. I assume you produce an annual report or something, or you have financials. Is that on your website as well, or do we have to request that? We have an annual report that we put out each year, but we also do an annual implementation plan. We have a quarterly newsletter, and we can get any specific information you want. What about your financials? Is that online, or do we have to request that specifically? They're in our annual report, which is posted online. They're in the annual report. Okay. Great, great. Yeah, just wasn't sure exactly what was included in that. Okay. Seeing nothing further for the Missouri Technology Corporation, thank you, and we can continue. Mr. Chairman, if it's okay, we would like to go back to page 13 to answer your question regarding that PD. Is that okay? Yes, that's fine. If you'd like to take that now, that'd be great. Yeah, so it was a little over $741,000. It's broken up into two different funds. $391,000 is the Promotional Revolving Fund. It's a STEP program, which is a federal program on how we reimburse companies for international trade and promotion opportunities for selling a Missouri product overseas. The other portion of it is $355,000. It's from our own GMAT program, which mirrors what STEP does. So as a Missouri company wants to go overseas, where this one is actually allowed to do domestic too, and go to trade shows and sell their product, we reimburse some of those travel costs. The GMAT fund, $355,000, is out of EDAF. Last year, if you remember, Mr. Chairman, I sat in front of you guys and said that we needed to move some of the funds out of EDAF in order to preserve EDAF, because we were spending more money than we were taking into EDAF last year. So I, as a director, halted that spending to make sure we could make our payments, and that is why that has lapsed there. Since we have had an increase in revenue in the EDAF fund, we are continuing to reimburse that this year. So that's very helpful. It sounds like both of those things, and now that you say that, I see on the core description, at least the last line, is the Business Recruitment and Marketing Program and International Trade Investment Offices can be found separate core decision items. But it sounds like some of the kind of promotion you're talking about, this is the regional engagement core, and those things don't really, I mean, do you think we could do like a core reallocation and that might fit better in the international trade section, or maybe its own section? Because it's, is that really, I mean, it sounds like it's kind of separate apart from the regional engagement. Well, the international team is under the regional engagement division. So they also are the first line, work with businesses. They are based in the regions, too, that they serve. It's just a different expertise, I would say. But those teams work very, very closely as they meet with businesses and are opportunities for international trade and promotion. They work together. The international trade core, it appears it's also under the regional engagement, within that same division. I guess I'm just asking, I don't know, and maybe you're not prepared to answer this question, but maybe let me know if you have any objection to, like, pulling this PSD out and making it its own core, or maybe, and maybe that would prevent anybody from ever asking this question in the future. It almost just seems like it's kind of got stuck on here, and I don't know that it totally fits with the... In 2021, as we were looking at how to better serve businesses, we moved the international team from BCS to regional engagement division. So I think that's where you see that, yes, it just, it got put under there. We would absolutely be open to having its own core and being able to... Maybe still under regional, the division, but just to separate it out a little bit, just so it's a little easier to see what's happening. To follow, yeah, absolutely. No problems, yeah. Because I've always, and maybe I'm the only one, I think I've always thought regional engagement, and obviously that division clearly does more than just this, but I just think of the people that are in our communities that are helping our local businesses connect with whoever to try to get the job, and clearly there's more going on. Correct. But you were right, and if it would have its own core, that's fine too. Okay, great, wonderful, thank you. And no more questions on that? I think we can continue where we left off. Thank you. Okay, thank you, Mr. Chair. So on 73, that this was MTC, I just want to note that this recommendation is unchanged from last year. So let's go ahead and go to page 79. This is for the CHIPS semiconductor. On page 79, you'll see a core to...item this has been zeroed out this is a one-time appropriation from the General Assembly but then if you go to page 84 you'll see a new decision item for ongoing funding this this offsets the the slow federal program rollout and I see a question I'm happy to pause now or just go forward. Representative Chappell you have an inquiry you may proceed. I do thank you Mr. Chair. All right so I recognize that this was in response to federal grant money that was being offered to the tune of 50 million dollars and 24 our match is 20% is that where the 10 million came from? So when when the original appropriation was made it was unclear whether or not the state would receive federal money actually the state is receiving no federal money for this it's for the the companies in the semiconductor sector actually they get money directly from the federal government so so state support is required in order for the private companies to receive that federal funding. Okay so that clears that up thank you however even though there was 10 million dollars appropriated in 24 doesn't appear we spent any of it? Yes that's correct sir. And then 25 the one-time 10 million dollars appropriated and yet as of January 28th haven't spent any of that yet either? That's correct sir yeah I'm happy to offer an explanation. Sure. So the federal program rollout has been has been fairly slow we did have some success on the company MEMC out of St. Charles County did win a federal award it was actually just announced in December they won what they won a federal award for their silicon wafer manufacturing in St. Charles County and so that that investment will occur now through through 2027. And what's the state's participation requirement for that? So the state's three point I think it's roughly 3.2 3.3 million dollars. For that for that individual grant? Project and then that company pulled down 20 million dollars from the federal chip program and they're investing over a hundred million dollars in their facility. And do we have any anticipation of which companies might continue to receive grants in the coming year? Yes sir so there's two companies that have received the Missouri award now that is contingent on them receiving the federal award they will receive no Missouri money unless they receive the federal CHIPS Act award and so there's two companies that have applied they've been asked to submit a full application they have not yet heard from the federal CHIPS Act program whether or not they've received their money. And what would be the state's participation on those two combined? So total it's 10 million they're each equal they're each right 3.2 3.3 million dollars to max out the 10 million dollars in total. So essentially we're saying we can do three of these a year? Well oh yeah so sorry these are three there's no more after these three so it's not three a year the ongoing is just because of the slow federal rollout and the kind of the capital intensive nature of the projects there's three companies and then the program is done and so if only one of these companies receives the federal funding only one only one company will see the Missouri funding if all three receive the federal funding than those three but there this is the end of the program after those after the federal CHIPS Act program. So win lose or draw whatever is left over on GR will just simply remain available in GR for the coming fiscal year it's not being spent? Yes sir. And when the program's over it's over this is not a forever and ever amen type deal? Yes sir. Okay thank you. Okay so I think I think I answered some of the questions I was going to go through here and just yeah just to confirm Missouri support is contingent on those federal awards. This is the same new decision item as was in the FY 25 governor's recommendation. Let's go ahead and go to page 87 please. This is for the active pharmaceutical ingredient or API. This is a core decision item for nine point six million dollars. This is a ongoing appropriation set forward by the General Assembly. The goals are to reshore active pharmaceutical ingredient or API manufacturing in the United States. Certainly really focused in Missouri for this program. University Missouri St. Louis is the academic partner for this program and they are working with active from the active pharmaceutical ingredient Innovation Center or APIC for this. This this court decision item is unchanged from the FY 25 appropriation from the General Assembly. If you go ahead and go to page 92. On this item. Yes sir. 87 and looking at page 91 it looks like you all haven't had any and I realize this is the first year for it but you haven't had any expenditures yet. What's the timeline on this for implementation? So that the tranche for both this program as well as the semiconductor reshoring the first the first funding has gone out on those. So yes. It just wasn't as of 128 I guess. That's correct yeah. Okay so very recent. Yes sir. What was that was that the entire nine point six million? It was not. Some subset of that? I have to follow up with with someone on our team. That's fine. I guess here's my question. Do you intend to fully expend this in fiscal year 25? Yeah. Okay so what went out was half and Kim do we expect to expend everything this year? Yes we do. So is this an annual or was this a one-time? This is ongoing so we yeah the General Assembly put as an ongoing and so we typically do not adjust what the General Assembly has put forward. Do you know and I forget somebody's probably told me but what you know to to reshore active pharmaceutical ingredients that's going to take nine point six million dollars general revenue dollars forever? No I don't think I think there's a period of time and so so I know for this for this fiscal year the but it's more than one year. We don't know. We would we would defer given this and you're just administering it. We would defer to the General Assembly. Okay all right well to those listening you know come talk to me about it or I'll ask you I guess if you if you're not listening whoever you are and we'll see what the need really is so going forward thank you. Okay may I continue sir? Okay and then so the semiconductor reshoring is on page 92 this is a this is you know akin to that the API reshoring so five point four million dollar core decision item. This is also an ongoing appropriation from the General Assembly. The goals are to really build out the semiconductor industry here in Missouri especially around R&D equipment materials process and development for that semiconductor industry. This money is being administered by Missouri State University and their Jordan Valley Innovation Center and I'll note that this this appropriation is also unchanged from the FY 25 or sorry this recommendation is unchanged from the FY 25 appropriation. And finally let's please go to the states page 97 this is the state small business credit initiative or SSBCI. This is for continued federal spending authority. This is a federal program through ARPA dollars. It is administered through MT Missouri Technology Corporation or MTC and MTC is investing in high-tech companies with high growth potential. There's also overseeing a business loan participation program. This is spending authority for sixty seven point nine nine million dollars again these are federal dollars and this is unchanged from last year. With that I'll go ahead and hand it on to my colleague Christina Carver. Representative Chappell you have an inquiry please proceed. Yeah before we switch them out sorry. You were so close. All right so I'm looking at the laps obviously on this last one. So FY 23 it was roughly 95 million appropriation amount and we spent 26 laps 60 68 and then FY 24 again 95 we lapsed all of it. We've reduced the request which is terrific thank you again. But I'm looking at it and again as of 128 nothing Is this another example of us sticking stuff in your in your world that is not terribly effective? No? No sorry I appreciate that question. No the intention is to spend down all of these funds again these are federal funds that are pulled down in three different tranches. So the first tranche of 27 roughly 27 million dollars that was pulled down in FY 23 and then the next tranche can't be pulled down until these 80% of those 27 million dollars are expended. So it's it's a total of 95 million and we have X number of years to spend it all when when do we have to return it whatever is left over? Yeah great question the program is intended to last eight to ten years this is direction from the Department of Treasury at the federal level so eight to ten years and we started the program in FY 23. Where are we at on the 80% of the original expenditure? I think I could get very specific I think it's roughly around ten million dollars so we still have a little ways to go of expending those dollars. Okay thank you. Okay thank you. Representative Brown you recognize for an inquiry? Thank you Mr. Chair this is maybe more of a general nature I don't know if this is the right time to ask it or not but as we go through these books and we talked to all the departments we hear a lot of things PSC was here this morning talked about power generation what's the biggest obstacles that DED faces right now to bring companies in? I mean power generation, land, workforce, transportation, what if you had to list them one to four? Yeah I appreciate the question Representative Brown. Are you referring to attraction projects or existing companies expanding? Maybe both. Okay because they're a little separate right? So I would say for attraction projects right now we are seeing a need for power so that is our number one issue that that we're coming across and I've spoken with the PSC and you know has presented information at their their summit that they've done strictly for educational purposes. I am NOT a utility expert, I am NOT a power expert, I just want to educate on the trends that we are seeing so that the people that are expertscan come to solutions around it. So, I would tell you what we are currently seeing as far as attraction projects is extremely large loads that are needed. Currently in our pipeline, so that's projects that we are actively competing against other states, we have three projects that are over one gigawatt of power requirement. Now, in 2021, I personally worked a project where five megawatts was the requirement. At that time, the utilities were like, we can't do that. That's within this timeframe. That's ridiculous, right? So, we went from five megawatts in 2021 to now one gigawatt as far as the requirement, right? So, we are continually trying to actively compete against other states. And this is not a Missouri thing. I want to be perfectly clear. This is a global issue we're all dealing with. It has to do with reshoring opportunities, the increase in manufacturing, especially around new technology and manufacturing, the new increase in data centers, and especially AI. So, that is what we are seeing huge as far as the attraction side. Existing companies, we're still trying to solve workforce issues. And that's not to say that attraction projects are not dealing with workforce issues. It's that we're not even looked at for workforce unless we can meet the power requirement. So, we're not even aware of it. We're not even in the running for it if we don't have the power. So, for existing companies, because they're already here, they're already using a majority of that power, any growth that they do is going to be small and substantial. It's not going to be the large amount that's going to be coming in for a new attraction project, right? So, we're not seeing the same power issues, but workforce we are definitely seeing. And we have some amazing tools that, thanks to you guys, passed, especially with upskilling, which our director of Missouri One Start, Christy Davis, will go in a little bit on that, but also her Missouri One Start program, which has been huge in making sure that we can recruit, upskill, train, and also attract new individuals into the state. So, I hope that answers your question. I'm happy to talk offline on this because this is what we do. So, I can get way too much into the weeds and spend hours on it, but I know sometimes that'll put people to sleep. I appreciate that. Thank you for the answer. I appreciate the question. Thank you. Representative Black, do you have an inquiry? Please proceed. Thank you. I think, Director, this is fine for you. So, as part of the power issues, does ECODEVO have the same impression that I do, that with regard to developing new power supply, that legislation in other states, or more accurately, legislation in Missouri prohibits the development of new power production, or limits, or makes us at a disadvantage with regard to the development of new power plants, new generation, as compared to the states around us? I would defer part of that question to the PSC as far as the legislation goes, right? However, what I would say is that we need to do something different if we're going to continue to be competitive. We are currently losing projects to other states. Kansas is one of them. So, I will state that, and that's a fact. That's data that we have around that. Whether legislation here or there is the correct one, I am not the expert to speak on. I just know we have to do something different if we want to continue to stay competitive. As a member of the Utilities Committee who has been dealing with this for 6 years, I think I can comfortably say, but I think I would ask you to confirm with your colleagues at PSC that, in fact, Missouri does have some legislative roadblocks that our surrounding states don't have. If you, in fact, believe that is the case, and you believe that would be important, then, of course, your help dealing with those roadblocks would be appreciated. I would say I've been working very closely with Commissioner Hahn on educating what our issues are, and then allowing her team to come up with solutions. They're proposing some, and they're along the lines that I've described. So, I would think that if you all would concur with that, that you might be helpful in helping us find solutions. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the committee. I am Christina Carver, and I am the Division Director for the Community Solutions Division. If you would please turn to page 102, this is the first of three decision items for the Community Development Block Grant, known as CDBG. This program provides federal funding for infrastructure improvements, demolition, and economic development projects for non-entitlement cities and counties, with grants awarded annually. This request is for $57,318,920, which is the same request that last year and aligns with the Governor's recommendation. If you could please turn to page 107, this decision item is for the CDBG Disaster Recovery Program, and this program provides federal grants to alleviate unmet housing infrastructure and economic revitalization needs due to severe storm and flooding events that occur in the state of Missouri. We are requesting $47,681,080 for this item, which also matches the Governor's recommendation. If you would now please turn to page 113 of the CDBG Federal Stimulus Funds, and this provided federal grants for projects that demonstrated how they assisted the community in preventing, preparing for, or recovering from COVID-19 impacts. We are currently requesting $18,399,870 for projects that have been approved for these funds, and we project that all will be expended through FY27. This request also matches the Governor's recommendation, and if you could turn to page 119. Real quick, taking all those CDGB items together, and if you look at each of them, and I won't go through it unless you want to, but there's a fair number elapsed on each of those items, and I know this is federal money, but can you just quickly go through why we would see that, what's causing that? So, typically we are awarded about $23 million in our annual grant each year. We open that up for projects to be awarded grant funding annually, but they have many years that they can ask for reimbursements for those projects. We're unable to determine when they're going to try to draw down those funds, so in order to remain nimble and responsive to those communities that need them, we make sure to always have the appropriation for the full amount as those projects come in. Some go much faster than expected, and some may take a little longer, but we want to make sure that we have those monies available to reimburse to communities as needed. Thank you. You're welcome. And so now, if you would please turn to page 119. This is the core decision item for the Northeast Missouri Regional Planning Commission decision. This was brought forward by the General Assembly and is an ongoing appropriation for $1 million matching the prior year, as well as the Governor's recommendation. Now, if you would please turn to page 124. This core decision item was budgeted as a one-time funding appropriation last year, and we are requesting a continuation of this funding represented through the GR transfer on page 129, and the corresponding new decision item and spending authority on page 136. The Main Street Program offers training and resources to community looking to establish a Main Street initiative, and we're requesting the same amount as last year of $1,450,000, which matches the Governor's recommendation. This concludes my presentation. Yes. Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry? Proceed. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us. Can you share a little bit more about the age of the Main Street Program, its effectiveness, and who uses it? Absolutely. So Main Street has been around for, since before I've been here, I don't remember exactly when it was instituted, but it's been around for many years. There are four key performance metrics that they look for when they're working in communities, and that's how many communities they can help their Main Streets become accredited, which opens them up to additional federal funding and grants availability. They also look for how many people they're able to train within those communities, and how often resources are made available to them. And they are engaged by the Main Street communities throughout the state. They'll reach out to them to talk about different funding opportunities and what it takes. But the program typically outperforms the metrics that they have. I think there's only been one time where I've seen they haven't had outreach that meets the requirements. So for example, last year they were able to, they had a goal of reaching 3,350 individuals for training, and they exceeded that by about 1.4%. So every year they exceed their goals typically. I think I've only seen one time where they just barely missed a goal. When you say training, what are we talking about? So they hold different types of training on how to become an accredited community, what it takes for them to establish a Main Street board, which will focus on what that specific Main Street should be offering to their community. So every community has a different niche or what is important about their community. They help identify those strategic plans that they should put in place to market their communities and to engage business owners and the citizens of that community so that everybody's involved in bringing that back to life. And you see that in a lot of some of those really successful communities that are able to engage and watch them grow from not having anything to actually having a really good strategic plan. And I'm assuming this benefits both urban and rural areas? Absolutely. For example, Del Mar is one that's just recently been working with them for the last couple of years. I think we have four Main Streets in St. Louis that have engaged Missouri Main Street. But we also are in smaller communities. You'll see it in Excelsior Springs. You'll see it even in Sedalia. So it's all throughout the state of Missouri. We have, I believe, currently we have about 23 communities this year that are working to build that accreditation up. But we've had a total of 65 for the goal, and last year we reached 63.which was over the goal. Excellent. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Representative Riggs, you have an inquiry? I do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to mention as far as that program's been around like since the 1970s, I was on the Main Street Board in Hannibal for three years, longest three years of my life, but anybody goes to Hannibal today, a lot of what you see downtown is Main Street influence. So after the Flood 86, we don't talk about that one before the flood wall. South Main basically is devastated. What we were able to do is put a lot of money into North Main, which is what you see today, is the fruits of those those labors. I did want to ask, can you send us out a list of the communities and other like candidate communities and folks who are fully vested? If you give us an idea what the geographic distribution is, we'd appreciate it. Absolutely. Thank you. Do you also want a list of any that are working toward... there's different tiers, as you know. In the pipeline. Yes, I will send you that. Thank you, Mr. Sharpe. Representative Sharpe. To inquire, Mr. Chairman. Proceed, please. Yes, I went to their annual meeting last year out of Kansas City and it was kind of like a Broadway production. They really do a nice job promoting, one, they do a nice job what they do and they do a wonderful job promoting what they do and it was very impressive the different communities that they had inspired and and had revitalized. A lot of downtown, a lot of Main Street streets, a lot of signs over Main Street. I don't think this today, I don't know if they get credit for that, but it's similar to what you see when you go into downtown today. They just really do a nice job promoting and so I thought it was very well, money very well spent and same way that a little bit of seed money and they took it and run with it and got a lot of other money coming in so it was a very good program. Thank you. Thank you. And this concludes my portion. Representative Taylor. Thank you. Just a comment, Mr. Chair. I wouldn't want to leave someone or a town in my district but Fayette and Howard County has been transformed or on the way of a major transformation thanks to the to the help they've received through this program so kudos to it. Thank you. Well before you run off, so I've also been involved with Main Street forever and I was on the State Board of Directors and Chillicothe, which I worked with, was a great American Main Street candidate multiple years, always a bridesmaid, never a bride, not that I'm bitter, just aggravates me. The National Committee favored the West Coast for some stupid reason, but we, the transformation of communities when they follow the Main Street for aspects is phenomenal. It is community-based, community-driven, the preservation of historic buildings is absolutely incredible, the reutilization of Main Streets that were supplanted in the 1970s and 80s by malls and where are they now, right? The internet supplanted them. Main Streets are where, that is the heart and soul of the community and I had a business owner one time and he was kind of frustrated with me because we were focusing so heavily on Main Street and I said, well you understand of course, as City Administrator, it's not my task to make sure that your cash registers are ringing. It's my task to make sure that there are cars driving by your business so that you can then go wave them in. That's your job. And by having the heart of the community revitalized in a way that younger people had never seen and older citizens remembered from when they were small, it is beyond impressive and I've been involved in every single stage along the way from a brand-new grant recipient all the way up to like I said not winning the National Prize and multiple years in a row. I'm still not bitter. But this is one of those rare instances wherein state government involvement focusing on helping communities do for themselves is significant. Do we have a number as to what the overall economic return on investment for Main Street communities across the state of Missouri, if Gail were here, she'd spit that out right now. But can we get that number? Yes, absolutely. Please, thank you. Any other questions? All right, thank you all. Thank you. Brooklyn Wasser, I am going to start on page 138. This is a transfer request which is required general revenue transfer that provides funding to the tax increment financing program and there is no change from last year. Page 143 is the request to establish spending authority for the TIF program. Page 149 is a transfer request for the same amount as fiscal year 25 which is a required general revenue transfer that provides funding to the Missouri Downtown Economic Stimulus Act known as MODESA. Page 154 is the request to establish the MODESA spending authority. Page 160 is a transfer request for the same amount as fiscal year 25 which is a required general revenue transfer that provides funding for the Downtown Revitalization Preservation Program known as DRPP. Page 165 is the request to establish spending authority for the DRPP program. And now if you'll please turn to page 170, we will review the Missouri Community Service Commission core decision item. This program funds the state's AmeriCorps initiative. AmeriCorps is a national service program that engages individuals in community-based projects to address critical needs in education, public safety, disaster relief, environmental issues, youth mentorship, health care, and more. MCSC receives funding funds from the Corporation for National and Community Service in Washington DC and then awards grants to organizations that partner with AmeriCorps to recruit dedicated volunteers who support their mission by providing services, enhancing programs, and addressing community needs. Before we move on, so this is another one of those lines that shows fairly consistent laps. In point of fact the form 9 for this line for this fund shows that the appropriation authority exceeds the money by a little over six million dollars. So do we anticipate more funding coming through? Do we anticipate the national government behaving appropriately? We, you know, hope springs eternal. We're gonna, I'm actually gonna have Christina Carver come back up and answer that question. I can answer part of it, but to save time we're just gonna have Christina come back up. Hello, thank you. So we do have annual awards that will come through for this so that could change how much we have available. Just like you see with many federal programs, we have projects that will take one to three years potentially to draw those funds down. It is a reimbursement program so we don't expend them until they've actually met the requirements to be reimbursed. We did have some funding that we are note that we did send back because it was not going to be utilized, so I don't think that we'll see it go up significantly. It should maintain the same. At some point, I mean, should we consider whether or not this appropriation amount, because we're staying. I love appropriations that, you know, 16 million nine hundred sixty two thousand two hundred forty five dollars exactly, right? And do we, you know, where does that number come from, first of all? So that is the cumulative of all the awards that we have received annually, and as we receive those awards we ask for appropriation to spend those down. Some programs will come through and be very successful and perform to those requirements, others won't, so we won't always spend everything that we receive. So it's purely based on the number? The award. Okay, the amount of the award. Yes, and we don't draw those funds down until they're expended. So that's the precision of the number. Exactly. Thank you. And then what determines whether or not someone successfully completes what the award has permitted? Absolutely. So we have a competitive cycle where different programs throughout the state will apply, they will submit a budget to us of what they expect to expend and how many they expect to recruit for their project. On a monthly basis they will submit their actuals based against that budget. If they don't perform as expected they will not be able to draw down, but if they over perform they might be able to draw more depending. Okay, all right, thank you. You're welcome. If you could please turn to page 176 to review MCSC ARPA funding. The American Rescue Plan Act provided funding for the Commission Support Grant, Commission Investment Fund, a new volunteer generation fund, and dollars to support AmeriCorps subgrantees. The core reduction shown on page 168 reflects the ARPA funding being transferred into the formula funding of the regular MCSC program per Corporation for National and Community Service, CNCS, which is the federal agency that oversees AmeriCorps programs. Page one. And when does that, when does all that have to be done since it's ARPA or is that, is that this year? So we, we do have this year and I believe next year, I think it is next year as well that we have to expend that. Really? I believe so. So we've got 6.1 million dollars left hanging out there.the wind and we've spent so far first half of this year 760,000 around that amount yes correct okay thank you you're welcome page 182 is the Wellston Loop Community Center brought forward by the General Assembly as a one-time appropriation and there is no spending recommendation for fiscal year 26 representative Taylor you have an inquiry or comment per se thank you do you have current records on how much they've requested how much they've actually expended and submitted as receipts for reimbursement yes the first request for reimbursement submitted was three thousand six hundred seventy two dollars when was that it was earlier this year well earlier this year would be January you're sure that's not from last year I I bring this up because I actually brought this to the General Assembly and it is a it's an ablited community the Wellston Loop Community Center provides hot meals they provide food they provide clothing they provide transportation and yet you know dealing with the state and getting set up for these reimbursements was a first time and a learning experience for them I want to say it may have been some time in the fall that they were able to start getting geared up and start submitting reimbursements so I know that they've been utilizing this they've also been lining up different community support a plumber has donated to do the water service for them another utility company has volunteered to help them with the renovation of the space and yet we had some severe weather and this they actually needed to use the space to house people during inclement weather so a lot of the construction on their renovation has been delayed so I will be asking the approach you know the General Assembly to reappropriate this capital and I'd ask for you guys support in that also the program is ongoing they've been making submitting receipts for reimbursement they probably won't finish all of it this year given the up-and-down the cold weather in st. Louis and that literally they've had people housed inside this space the city is in a crisis mode right now they've made accommodations that literally any church anyone any space that can be used to bring people in out of the cold so they volunteered I think they had about 20 people there the last time I went by so I bring that to the assembly and I'll ask you guys support as we ask for the reappropriation of this fund next year thank you book one that's the end of book one we've been at this for a while understood we're gonna take ten minutes and we will be back here in ten minutes to start book two and I anticipate we will move relatively quickly through that as well but so 256 by my watch yes ma'am okay so ten minutes recess thank you