I'm going to call the hearing back into order. We are one minute late. I want the record to reflect it was not my fault. It's not one minute late? Oh well, okay. Okay, Mr. Chairman, we will go ahead and get started. I've got Christy Davis, she's the director of Missouri One Start, and this was the division I was speaking to regarding our training and upscaling, but I'll let her speak about her budget items. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair and members of the House. Again, my name is Christy Davis and I am the division director for Missouri One Start. It's my pleasure to present our fiscal year 26 budget. We will start on page 187 of the budget book. Just to give a recap, Missouri One Start provides training resources and recruitment assistance to businesses to ensure they have the right workforce with the right skill set. With oversight by the department, our division oversees three training programs, two upscaling programs, and provides branded recruitment assistance to companies across the state. Page 187 in the budget book is the core funding for 12 staff who administers the Missouri One Start program. These funds include personal services, expenses, and equipment for our team members who provide oversight for the training programs and recruitment assistance. Next I'll have you turn to page 194, the Missouri One Start Community College training program. This core decision item is for the community college training program. This program was previously two separate programs, the new jobs training program and the job retention training program, and had two separate funding caps. However, last year those funds were combined into one fund. There is no change to this request for funding or program administration for these programs. If you turn to page 19- If I could, if I could interrupt you, I'm sorry. So FY 24, these two caps were combined for that as well. We actually ended up spending less than a half, and I'm showing that we've spent about half of that thus far this fiscal year, which is roughly half the fiscal year. Do we anticipate this being $27 million moving forward? I can tell you historically, and this fund uses withholding, employee state withholding tax, so it's a diversion of withholding tax into a training account. In years past historically, we have withheld anywhere between $11 to $15 million is what we have seen in withholdings. I can tell you we have about $50.4 million that are in pending projects. These projects typically go three to four years, so it just kind of depends on the new jobs that come in, how many of those come in, or how large the project is, like the equipment is for the retraining. So it kind of depends on that. That's why there's such a difference there. But typically, historically, between $11 and $15 to $16 million. Mr. Chairman, I know at times, right, we want to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars, too, right? So I know at times, even though we're not using the full amount that's there, it's another tool in our toolbox for helping for recruit and keeping employers here. But we want to make sure that as those requests are coming in, it's meeting the qualifications, it's meeting the requirements, and it's truly needed and not something that's just continually given to employers. Well, you and I have spoken offline, and I truly appreciate the department's willingness to look for the soft spots in the budget. I'm not being critical at all. But we've heard this week especially a lot of may and might, we could need it, and that's how budgets get to be $53 billion, by the way. And so I'm just asking, trying to be fair across the board, when I see something like this, you know, I just want to make sure we're watching it closely. Understood. So if you turn to pages 199 and 204, you will see the core forms that were previously associated with the new jobs training program and the job retention training program have been reduced to zero. However, these forms were left in the budget book to provide expenditure history and will remain in the budget book until they're no longer applicable. So next I'd like to turn to page 209. These funds support both the personalized recruitment services provided to businesses as well as funds in the Missouri One Start customized training program. The customized training program is one of the more flexible and popular workforce programs that we offer. With the purpose of training new and existing employees, the customized training program provides individual approach to each company's specific needs. The program is administered locally by the community colleges and career tech center with oversight by Missouri One Start staff. There's no change request to this core decision item. Next I'd like to turn to page 214, Missouri Women in Trades. This core decision item was a one-time appropriation for fiscal year 25. We are not requesting additional funds for fiscal year 26. Next I'd like to turn to page 219, the upscale credential GR transfer. This core decision item requires the general revenue transfer fund that holds the funding appropriated for the upscale credential training program. Funds from this program provides resources to reimburse qualified employers for eligible training costs associated with their employees successfully obtaining an approved credential and demonstrates the competency necessary for a particular occupation. In fiscal year 25, this core decision item was approved as one-time appropriation of $3 million. If you turn to page 224, this accompanying new decision item requested the general revenue transfer fund to hold a maximum appropriation of $6 million in ongoing funding for the credential training program. The governor did not recommend this request. If you can turn to page 226, this core decision item represents $3 million that was appropriated as ongoing funding in fiscal year 25 for the credential training program. This appropriation requires a GR transfer to the upscale credential training fund. This core decision item has an accompanying new decision item if you turn to page 231. This new decision item was to increase the ongoing funding for the credential training program an additional $3 million in fiscal year 26. The governor did not recommend this request. And this concludes the presentation for the fiscal year 26 budget. Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry, we have a, you have an inquiry representative Riggs. Sort of. So don't go anywhere yet. All right. At the risk of ruining my image, we spent two years doing workforce, basically taking a deep dive into the way the state does workforce development. One program's name came up over and over and over again, Missouri One Start. One name came up over and over again. That was you. So I just want to thank you for all that you've done, what you bring to the table, how nimble, how quick, how effective that program is. Probably pound for pound best program in the state of Missouri. And thank you, you hired one of my former students. So that did not go unnoticed. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all you do. You have no frame of reference, but that was downright warm and fuzzy. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the committee. My name is Kayla Kukulhan, and I am the director of strategy and performance division at the Department of Economic Development. The division was created in 2019 with the reorganization with the purpose to help DED programs become more efficient, increase impact, and provide better customer service. The division also houses the department's legislative and communications and marketing teams, as well as our Office of Missouri's Military Advocate and Missouri Women's Council. Now if you will turn to page 233, you will see a core decision recommendation to cover the personal service and expense and equipment costs of the division. The recommendation remains unchanged from fiscal year 25, except for the reduction of one-time funding. Next, if you will go ahead and turn to page 241, this is a new decision item that was not recommended by the governor. And we will move on to page 244. Page 244 reflects a zero-dollar recommendation for Federal American Rescue Plan Act funding from the Economic Development Administration. The previously allocated funds will be expended this fiscal year. So now let's go ahead and move on to page 249. Mr. Chairman. Representative Sharp. Yes, to inquire. Proceed please. I just want to back up just a second about the Missouri Military Preparedness and Enhancement. That was under, would you like to go through that? Yes. So actually there's a separate item for the Military Advocate specifically. And I can skip ahead to that one if you want me to. So is it run by a commission? Yes, it is. And we have our Executive Director, Harry Roberts, here as well, who oversees that. I'm just going to inquire whether a lot of boards don't stay filled, is how is that board doing? Or for what they do, of course, we have a couple of military bases here in the state, you know, that's pretty important to us, so I was just kind of curious about that. Representative, good afternoon. In regards to your question, the Missouri Military Preparedness and Enhancement, by the way, my name is Harry Roberts, I'm the Missouri Military Advocate for the State of Missouri appointed by the Governor. I've been in this role since January 3rd of 2022. I fell out of form. But in regards to your question, sir, yes, the MPEC, the Missouri Military Preparedness Enhancement Commission, is comprised of 11 members, seven of which are appointed by the Governor, four of which come out of the legislature, two from the Senate, and two from the House. The two Senators are Senator Roberts and Senator Crawford, and the two House members are Representative Awning and Representative Hardwick. I am pleased to report for your question, yes, the commission is, all those seats are filled, as recently as last March, so not quite a year ago now, the last seat was filled. The two seats that were most recently filled were General Frank Grass, who's the former four-star chief of the National Guard Bureau, whichalso served on a Joint Chiefs of Staff. He was actually the second Guard Chief to serve on a Joint Chiefs. He lives in Columbia and he was willing to join the Commission. It was January, I believe it was effective January of 2024, and then the most recent one, which actually filled the Commission, but then another Commissioner, Roald Turner, had decided he was ready to retire and so Natalie Hahn, who is also a former member of the Air Mobility Command Community Committee, agreed to serve on the Commission. So we have all seven of the Governor-appointed Commission members and, of course, the four legislative members. It looks like it makes sense to have Senator Crawford on there with Whiteman and Representative Hardwick with Fort Leonard. Actually all four of the legislative members have been very engaged. We, since I've been in this role, we have taken the Commission meetings instead of just meeting in Jefferson City every quarter. We've actually taken it on the road and gone to our installations. We've been to Whiteman, we've been to Fort Leonard Wood, we've been to NGA, National Geospatial Intelligence Agency, and we also choose to, and fortunate to, visit and hold those Commission meetings at some of our defense contractors in Missouri, such as Boeing, and recently in December we were at Honeywell in Kansas City. So all those Commission members tend to be very engaged and attend those meetings even though we take them on the road. Where's that National Geospatial Intelligence Agency? Where's that at? The NGA. I get to deal in a lot of acronyms, right? NGA is in St. Louis and they're building a new headquarters in St. Louis as we speak. It'll open in 2026. There's only two places that do the work that NGA does. One in DC and the other one in St. Louis. So Missouri is very pleased to have that facility in St. Louis. Okay, thank you. Representative Taylor, you have an inquiry? Yes, maybe just a little follow-up. We are truly blessed to have that facility and they've been spurring a lot of geospatial research. Can you share anything on some of the tech work and some of the research that they've been spurring for the state? Well, I obviously can't talk about anything that's... Not classified. Classified, right? But they have obviously the unclassified side. So when you think about when you're GPSing, you know, that's all that research and all that mapping is done by NGA. That's what makes it easy for you to turn and say, well, this is where I'm going instead of having to find your way the old-fashioned way with a paper map that you open up and have halfway spread across the front seat of the car. But they do a lot of things that are very helpful. I mean, they're helping with the satellite programs. I mean, what they do is endless and it's really above me to understand how they do it. But they're measuring gravity even in the middle of the ocean. I mean, just some of the things that NGA is capable of doing is truly incredible. And they're really pushing STEM. And that's a big deal for our education, for our children, and our high schoolers, and then obviously higher ed. Yeah, great partnership between NGA and some of the area universities. St. Louis University, UMSL, I know I was there. And they were giving a presentation on flood management and some of the satellite imagery and how they've been digitizing literally down to pick, you know, small parcels for hydrology and water management. So it really is a great partnership. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you for not violating national security. We appreciate that as well. Go ahead, proceed please. Okay, and on page 249, this is a core recommendation for our broadband grants and Federal Infrastructure Act funds. This is unchanged from the increase appropriated from fiscal year 25. All right, 1.7 billion is always going to get my attention. So to that, I recognize this is a grant that is going to be however long it takes. And this is a distribution to communities and we're trying to get broadband. This is going to impact rural areas significantly. However, and I'm in favor of all of it. Right, obviously. Broadband is electronically every bit as important as I-70 or I-44 or any of the others. I mean it's a big deal. However, we've spent a little bit of the money. Will we, can we expect to see as we appropriate year by year that the amount will be drawn down that's requested from what we've already spent? Okay, let me see if I can answer this without before we have to bring up BJ, okay. So yes, you should. We will, yes. So currently applications are open for proprietors and that will end at the end of the end of February. That will give us a better idea of what areas are going to be or currently underserved that they're willing to serve. So that will essentially tell us how much of that 1.7 we currently have that we can spend. Round two will go into effect this summer for applications and then we will have a better idea in June. And so you'll have the the date certain for application for the following fiscal year will be in plenty of time for y'all to make the adjustments. Correct, but we are hoping to spend all of the dollars with it. Depending on when the reimbursements happen, we still might need this authority for next year. But as those years happen, we will spend down that. It just shouldn't be 1.785 billion every year from now until it's over. That's correct, correct, because we will spend it down. Okay, thank you. BJ, do you want to correct me on anything? Nope? Okay. Those were all the right answers so I hope not. Okay, now if you will turn to page 255. This is a core budget recommendation for our Office of Missouri Military Advocate and this is unchanged from our request last year. If you'll turn to page 262, this reflects a zero dollar recommendation for federal funding from the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation. The previously allocated funds will be expended this fiscal year. And lastly, if you'll go to page 267, you'll see a recommendation regarding our Military Community Reinvestment Program. This is a core budget item and is unchanged from last year. That concludes my presentation of Strategy and Performance Division Budget. Thank you. Okay, we're now here from our Tourism Director, Stephen Faust. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee. I feel bad that you all didn't get to hear from Director Tanksley, so if he'd like to take my part, I'd be glad to cede my time to him. I see you, that's enough. So again, Stephen Faust, Director of the Missouri Division of Tourism. Joining me today are several members of my finance and program teams, Deputy Director Lynn Strumpf, Accountant Kara Kleindienst, Cooperative Marketing Program Manager Megan Rogers, and Missouri Film Office Director Andrea Sporsak-Klund. Our division is the operating arm of the Missouri Tourism Commission and we focus on promoting the state as a leisure travel destination. We strive to accomplish our mission through a robust marketing campaign that utilizes varied media, along with public relations outreach, targeting consumers in more than 50 media markets across 19 states. As I mentioned, the Film Office is part of the Division of Tourism as well. The Film Office focuses on marketing Missouri to the film industry and bringing motion media production to our state. The Film Office also works with the Business Opportunities Team to administer the motion media production tax credit associated with the SHOMO Act. So if you'll turn to tab 272, please, you'll see the $24.91 million request for the division's FY26 budget, unchanged from FY25 into the Governor's REC for the Corps, is the same at $24.91 million. This is a transfer of general revenue funds that supports division operations and programs and includes funding for the Film Office. On tab 277, you'll see a Governor's recommended increase of $1 million to expand opportunities for sporting event sponsorships in Missouri. Then on tab 279, you'll see Tourism's Corps funding, which includes professional services, PS, expense and equipment, and program- specific dollars. This is virtually all of the division's operating costs, minus that funding for the Film Office, for our Meet in Missouri program, and the Route 66 Centennial Commission. Note that the FY26 is the same as FY25, minus $500,000, which had been marked as one time for a program related to golf in Missouri. On tab 287, then, you'll see the Appropriation Authority that corresponds with that Governor's recommended $1 million sponsorship fund increase. On tab 289, you'll see that we're zeroing out some former ARPA EDA funds. These funds were spent primarily for FY23 marketing, and we had a little less than $840,000 that was paid in FY24 due to the timing of invoices, but with that $837,000 and change paid during FY24, the total $3 million allocation for that does sit at zero. Tab 294, then, is the Corps for the Film Office and shows the operating budget of $200,194, reflecting no change for our current fiscal year 25. Moving on, then, to tab 300. This is Route 66 Centennial Commission funding at $1 million. In FY25, $2 million was appropriated for this line, $1 million of which was for a monument. That funding was marked as one time, so tab 302 shows the reduction of that million, leaving the total department request for the Centennial Commission at $1 million. However, then you move ahead to tab 305, and you'll see an NDI related to the Route 66 Centennial Commission. This is the governor's recommendation to expand the commission's programs, and it adds $500,000, so $1.5 million total for the Route 66 Centennial Commission. Excuse me. Yes.Did I hear you correctly, this includes a monument for Route 66? The General Assembly last year, in this appropriation line, there was a million dollars, I believe it was a million, maybe $970,000 allocated for a Route 66 monument. And where will that be located? I believe that is in Springfield. It's not my district. Well, it may be my district, I guess. Yeah, I'm aware of the history. Thank you, Representative Owen. My family's been there since 1836, I'm aware, thank you. So it's in your district, Representative Fogle? All right, there we go. Thank you for the update and for the history reminder, Representative Owen. All right, go ahead. Tab 308 is an NDI related to additional funding to support the upcoming World Cup promotion and fan activities in Kansas City that will happen in 2026. And then tab 310 contains the GR transfer information for the Meet in Missouri program, and the request for FY26 is $1 million, which is the same as allocated by the General Assembly in FY25. And then finally, I'm sorry, I overlooked Representative Riggs, I think he has a question about the Route 66 perhaps, but I think he just finished that line, so. Sir? Okay, we'll proceed whatever you look. Okay, I'll just go ahead. First of all, can you walk us through what the World Cup is going to look like in terms of tourism? I'm already hearing about rooms being booked as far east as Macon, which is a lot. Second, I don't see anything in there about the 250th anniversary of the United States. I don't even know how to pronounce that. It's sesquicentennial plus. Quincentennial, is that right? Yeah. It's one of those big fancy words, yeah. All yours. And last, if you could sort of walk us through what the cooperative program does with our local folks. I think that's it for the moment. Sure. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Sherman. Sure, so I'll try to be brief here. World Cup is a huge opportunity for Missouri. The numbers that I've seen, the most recent numbers, are about 600,000 visitors to Kansas City metropolitan area and across the region for that event. There's not going to be 600 people, I want to make it clear, there's not going to be 600,000 people show up at one day at one time. Kansas City is really fortunate in that the footprint for the World Cup lasts about 26 days from match one until the quarterfinal match. So there's roughly a month of opportunity for Missouri to be a World Cup host site. The latest numbers I've seen in terms of economic impact on Missouri only is close to $490 million. Unfortunately, there's not a dividing wall between us and the state to our west, so there will be some economic impact there that we can't do anything about. Total economic impact is anticipated to be up over $600 million between the two states. So that's World Cup. Can't you put up a sign that says Kansas is closed for business? I defer to the General Assembly on that. Crowdfund that. Second question was related to, do you want me to do co-op or, I'll talk about co-op. So the Cooperative Marketing Program represents the second largest investment in the division's budget. Each year we spend about $12, $13 million in true marketing. That is between our own campaign and the Cooperative Marketing Program, and that's about $4 to $4.5 million that goes to many of our communities across the state. They are what we call destination marketing organizations or DMO partners, and that's a matching grants program that allows them, in essence, to double their dollars and also gives us some exposure by using our logo and branding in their messaging. So that program has been very popular and has been in place for many years. And then part three was, you're going to have to refresh my memory, to the semi-quincentennial. I believe that funding for that particular item is flowing through OA. Don't hold me to that, but I believe that's where the commission that the state has established sits is part of OA's operations, I think. All right. I'm not sure, but I think bicentennial is another option. So with respect to the state's bicentennial, everybody was in the middle of that. Does tourism have a role in this? How is, do you have any idea what this is going to look like? It's only a year away. Right. So I think that what we have seen, there's a federal commission as well. What we have seen, and this is just kind of anecdotal, is this is really a major event for what I would call the original 13, if you will. Those states have really dialed in to the 250th. I think here in a lot of states, what we're going to see is significant celebrations around July 4 activities particular. I don't know what OA has planned. Certainly if we are directed by the Tourism Commission, we will get involved to whatever capacity we're able to. Well, let's hope so. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You bet. Representative Douglas, you have an inquiry or comment? I do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proceed. Sorry. Thank you all for being here. I want to inquire again about the World Cup. I heard estimates to be a little bit higher than the $3 million that you all are asking for in order for tourism for World Cup. So I just wanted to know kind of how did you come about this number, or did it scale down based on what the planners were asking for? Great question. Thank you very much. So we had a lot of conversations about that, and there's, as you are probably well aware, there's a group called KC2026, which is the local level coalition that is working on this. And in consultation with them, we felt like that was a really good starting point that would allow us to do some marketing specific to World Cup and provide some sponsorship support to those FanFest activities. FanFest will be ancillary to the games, if you will. We'll have a footprint on the grounds of the National World War I Museum in Qatar in 2022. FanFest drew a million attendees over the course of its time. We anticipate they're going to cap about 25,000 people at any given time within that footprint. So over the course of 30 days, you can kind of do the math there. There's a pretty significant opportunity. And so we have marketing options, and then we have that sponsorship option, which we think will help Kansas City be really good hosts to citizens and help people have a really great time and enjoy themselves at FanFest and other related activities around the metro area and across the state. Representative, I would add too, and I'll have Stephen add a little bit more context here. This is just our ask for the World Cup. As you guys are well aware, there are other asks from other agencies regarding public safety and MoDOT as a full picture of it. But Stephen, if you could speak on the host cities aspect and the timing of that. Yeah. So the host cities, Kansas City is really uniquely positioned in that from Kansas City, the next closest host city is Dallas. And so we in Missouri have a great opportunity, I think, to be what will be called base camps for different teams that come. We certainly will have the teams that come in to Arrowhead for the matches, but it's our hope that our central location will entice more teams and the fans they bring to potentially think about Missouri, Kansas City, and other places in Missouri to set up their base camps if those cities are able to host them. Yeah. All right. Excellent. Because Kansas City is a great place to be, and we've had several FanFests, and we've done an excellent job in that regard. Just one more. You said that the FanFest itself will be at the World War I Museum. Is it just going to be at that central location, similar to the draft, or is it going to go down to the Convention Center as well? The footprint I've seen is mostly there in the area of the World War I Museum itself. I haven't seen a footprint that goes down toward, say, Union Station and other areas. What I've seen is confined to that World War I, I'll say, front yard, if you will. Excellent. Thank you so much. Yes, ma'am. Representative Hine, you have an inquiry or comment? Yes. Please proceed. There we go. I've got my mic on now. Thank you. Can you speak to the FilmTaps credit and the Film Office's role in administering that tax credit, and how effective has the tax credit been in attracting new productions? I know a lot of people were excited about that in my neck of the woods. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for the question. Sorry. Something's going off here. Sorry about that. Sorry about that. Yeah. It was Spielberg. I've got to take it. The General Assembly enacted the incentive a few years ago, and we launched it, again, in partnership with the Business Opportunities Division in, I believe, October of 2023 was when the program went online. This is a unique program in that it works on a calendar year basis. In each calendar year, there's kind of two verticals. There's a vertical for film production, you know, what we generally say is movies, and then there's an episodic or series production line. Each of those verticals has an $8 million cap. So, 2023, we just had a few months, and there were two larger productions that were eligible for about $2.5 million in incentives, and they spent about $6.5 million in the state. Last year, calendar year 24, we had 39 productions that were eligible for the incentive. They spent about $33.5 million in the state, and they were eligible for about $12.5 million in incentives. The film vertical, again,was nearly exhausted it did really well we were very pleased with that the episodic or series line left about three and a quarter or three and a half roughly on the table but we do anticipate that with the success that we have seen again you know it's still kind of a fledgling program but we were really pleased by that and I think Andrea if she's still here from the film office could answer any more detailed questions but I think a final point that she has made is we've seen an uptick in productions in an interest and we've seen an uptick in those productions that have budgets of 1 million dollars or more and so that's what we're really pleased to see thank you yes thank you mr. chair representative Taylor you have comment or inquiry I do please proceed please thank you good evening great or good afternoon number one just a plug for our Department of Tourism outstanding work I've gotten a chance to work with Stephen and the team on a number of projects and I definitely wanted to share with the team with our my colleagues how responsive how timely how supportive these are outstanding partnerships that you that you're fostering with these organizations of a short plug for our new music festival you were one of the first sponsors to step in and that festival is growing and they've been growing their attendance so I'm gonna ask you if you wouldn't mind sharing a little bit about the partnership that you have with our great balloon race another hallmark in the st. Louis region great attendance if you could share a little bit about that partnership and how well that's been going sure I'm surprised you didn't ask about your beloved battle Hawks so we've had the opportunity to partner with many great programs across the state from the JC is Boothill rodeo in Sykestan to Hispanic Heritage Festival in st. Joseph to the Great Forest Park balloon race and I think these are opportunities where we get a little bit of name recognition we want people to understand that these are examples of the types of things there are to see and do across Missouri no matter where you live you're you know you can be at one of these great events in just a short drive and it's our pleasure to be involved and help those folks be able to host those events and put on a great show for people who come to the show me state thank you plug on the battle Hawks and a little plug on the battle Hawks so oh yeah kakal right and so this year we last year last season the battle Hawks st. Louis was the host of the championship game unfortunately the battle Hawks didn't make it to the championship game but we had the opportunity to be a sponsor for that and we had an activation there where folks came by and talked to us we distributed Missouri travel guides and Missouri shirts and things and we met people from all across the country we had people from Pennsylvania from Minnesota Wisconsin of course Allah the team from Alabama was in the championship so we had people from Alabama and other areas in the south and they were all blown away by how much fun they were having in st. Louis it was a great weekend it was a little hot that day but everybody was having a good time and so this year our partnership with the battle Hawks they don't have the championship game but if you watch a battle Hawks game you should see Missouri represented if everything comes to plan you'll see the visit Missouri logo on their jerseys so virtually every play Missouri should be represented representative Murray of an inquiry may proceed to comment proceed yeah just wanted to kind of echo those same sentiments I would like to reject the notion that Missouri and st. Louis is in a football town and state and as the representative of a 78 district I just wanted to add that car is the law okay I think you can press the last one and last tab I think we're on 315 it's the core appropriation authority for the meet Missouri program no change from FY 25 again through this program those DMOs destination marketing organizations that I spoke about can apply for incentives to assist in booking major events and getting them to come to Missouri so that concludes my presentation I'll turn it over to thank you Stephen yeah we're gonna have Jennifer Schmidt with Missouri Housing Development Commission come up and go through a couple of their items guys we're almost done appreciate everyone's patience Oh Kip's coming I'm sorry Kip I was misinformed I'm not Jennifer you would much rather hear from Jennifer but I'll see what I can do good afternoon mr. chairman members of the committee Kip Stutzler executive director of Missouri Housing Development Commission on page 320 of your budget book you will find the Missouri Housing Trust Fund this is a dedicated state fund that MHTC was designated by statute to administer the program is funded by three dollars of the filing fee we all pay when we record a real estate related document with a county recorder of deeds office the purpose of this program is to provide housing assistance to individuals and families with household income of 50% area median income or lower this is accomplished by competitively granting funds to nonprofits that provide the assistance directly to individuals and families in their communities the assistance typically takes the form of getting the homeless into housing and helping those currently housed but facing immediate risk of becoming homeless the governor's recommendation is 6.5 million same as the department request and no change from last year and if you'll turn to page 325 the federal emergency solutions grant program this program is essentially the same as the previous program but these are federal funds grantees include cities and counties and the household income of the individual or family receiving the direct assistance must be 30% of area median income or lower this is a core reduction governor's recommendation is zero same as the department request and if you would please turn to page 330 this is the federal emergency rental assistance program the governor's recommendation is zero same as the department request no change from last year this program has closed and then at 335 this is the federal homeowner assistance program again governor's recommendation is zero same as the department request no change from last year and again this this program is closed representative Taylor you recognize for an inquiry right thank you can you share a little bit more on why these programs are closed it seems like we're in the middle of a small bit of a housing crisis so why are these programs closed I'm sure yeah these were federal one-time funds so these were covert relief funds from the US Treasury and so they've been fully administered representative Owen you were yes thank you at one point in time I financed several developers through MHTC until at one point I was told well your banks too small and we're not going to use you anymore but when I was doing this I the people that I was financing primarily built single-family dwellings they didn't do they did a couple apartment projects they did single-family dwellings and all of a sudden I noticed your change moved towards apartments the thing I liked about the single-family dwellings was if the person's economic position changed over time they had the ability to buy the home that they were living in which allowed them to start developing net worth and something that I'm really focused on back in Springfield in trying to get people into homes because owning a home and in a retirement plan are the two easiest best ways to develop net worth otherwise we're just providing a subsidy to these people month after month year after year after year what is your current mix between multifamily and single-family yes so representative I believe you're referring to our low income housing tax credit program yes light tech yes so we do still finance those applications that come to us that propose single-families typically scattered site development we do typically we do still do that and fund those applications I would and it just differs from year to year because we rely on the applications that are that are submitted to us and we receive roughly a hundred and fourteen applications a year we have enough low income housing tax credits to fund roughly 30 percent 25 to 30 percent of those I believe we can certainly get you some some some accurate detailed information on that but I if I had to give you a guess again it changes from year to year understand but this past year this past December when we approved I think out of the out of the 30 or so applications that we approved I believe two of them were single-family scattered site proposals well I wouldn't I talked to Scott Fitzpatrick several years ago about this and he indicated to me that that there was going to be you were going to get extra credit on your trying to determine the I don't know if it's a point structure or what have you as to which ones we're going to do or not do if you did single-family dwelling as opposed to multifamily is that in place or ever been in place where someone a developer if they came to you if they were trying to do single-family got some advantage over maybe somebody else who was just doing multifamily yeah our scoring criteria currently does not favor the single-family development over the multifamily development I would say and representative we to particularly in the rural areas where it sometimes it makes a little more sense to do single-family those seem to be the single-family development seems to be better received in the rural areas so we too like to see those applications and we typically do seethose, more so in the rural areas. But as we sit here today, our scoring criteria does not favor that type of development. They are typically a little more expensive to build. And there's no question about that, but you know, if we're going to try and hit all the markets, you know, I mean, you know, the very low-end, obviously apartments makes a lot of sense, but as people get maybe towards the top end of 80% or below median income, maybe we do have some options, and I would agree with you that it probably makes more sense in medium to small communities than maybe it does in our two largest communities. But anywhere we can do that, we're giving up the option of giving people an opportunity to get on the economic ladder and develop net worth. And we're never going to solve poverty unless we start finding venues to create net worth. And so that's just kind of my drumbeat, and that's kind of the bandwagon I'm on. I just, I'm trying to look at every way possible. We, I don't want to get too far off here, but we just got a pilot program in Springfield where we were given a half million dollars to do 50 down payment closing cost assistance grants. It brought 50 people back down in the inner city of Springfield. The median income for each of those buyers was $63,000 a year. That's three million dollars in disposable income we brought back to the old neighborhoods of Springfield because we gave them $9,000 help in down payment closing cost assistance. Now you're not in that game, you're in, you know, based on your income, here's what your rent is, but if they get a job and things improve, the fact that they have, can have an opportunity to buy that house that they're in, to me is a huge thing. And, you know, sometimes there's like school buildings, whatever, makes sense to do apartments there. You know, I get that, we want to utilize those facilities, but I would just encourage you where it is feasible to look at doing single family that gives the renter an opportunity, may it be eventually over time, buy that house. Thank you. Thank you, appreciate your time. Representative Black, you are recognized for an inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I know this doesn't really seem like perhaps an economic development return, at least in the short term, but one of the most significant difficulties with regard to trying to provide stability for persons who are trying to recover from substance abuse is a lack of housing. And if, and as a result of that lack of housing, a lot of those persons, some of those persons don't get on the right track. They stay boards of the state, they don't develop their ability to find employment, and the economic product that would be to the state and to our communities as a result of those folks getting off public and becoming productive members of society is obvious. Do you have any track in your funding dedicated or available to persons that might want to build housing for a very tough clientele in terms of, in terms of the fact that most landlords aren't really that interested in providing such assistance and as a result the housing is not really available. Do you have any track that might help with that? Yes, so two things, two different programs. Our Homeless Prevention Program, and that's the Missouri Housing Trust Fund, that was the first budget item that I mentioned. Those funds are distributed to not-for-profits throughout the state, and those not-for-profits then deliver direct assistance to individuals and families in their communities, and oftentimes those services include the types of service that you're referring to as they attempt to get them into a permanent housing situation. The other thing I would say is with respect to our low-income housing tax credit program, of the 30-plus applications that our board approved this year, every one of them had those types of wraparound services to assist low and moderate income families that have issues and concerns that, Representative, that you mentioned. Yeah, I'm sorry if I missed that as part of your initial presentation, but with regard to said Homeless Direct, what did you say, the Homeless Program? So we have Homeless Prevention Programs, so the Missouri Housing Trust Fund, which was the first budget item, that's what that program is designed, those are the folks that program is designed to serve, is to help folks that are currently homeless and put them into a permanent housing situation, and oftentimes that service also includes the types of wraparound services that you refer to. And I, of course, I wasn't here and I apologize again, but are those funds being expended? Oh yes. They are? Yes. And so, but your availability is limited, is that right? You have statutory transfers? It is, so that fund is funded, if you will, from anytime we all go to a recorder of deeds office, we file a recording fee, and three dollars of that recording fee goes to this fund, and then it's transferred to MHDC to administer. And yes, we distribute 100% of those funds every year. And if you had additional funding somehow, you could distribute those too? Absolutely. Thanks, sir. Representative Douglas, you have an inquiry, please proceed. Great, thank you so much, Mr. Chairman. Just a follow-up question, when you're talking about your homeless services programs through MHDC, and I can't remember, please refresh my memory, do those funds, are they allowable for felon-friendly housing? Felon? Those families that are experiencing homelessness oftentimes come across with felons, felonies, so will they be able to access those housing opportunities? Yes, Representative, I don't think that's a disqualification for receiving that kind of assistance, no. Okay, excellent, thank you. Okay, I think we're ready to continue now, Mr. Chairman. That's all I had. We're going to hear with Nikki from our administration division. Nikki Rinkles. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman and members of the committee. My name is Nikki Rinkles, and I am the Director of Finance, and I will be presenting the administration's division's budget. If you look on page 340, this is the core item for the administration division. The department request was $1.7 million, and then with the governor's rec was the $1.7 million also to match. Page 347 is the admin revolving fund, $280,669 with the recommended match. Page 352 is the legal expense fund transfer, $1. Representative Riggs, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Wait for her to go ahead and finish. That's okay. Say what? Wait for her to go ahead and finish, if that's okay. You want to want me to come back to you at the very end? Yes, please. Very well, please continue. Page 352 is the legal expense fund transfer for $1, and that precludes the administration division's budget. Okay, Representative Riggs, I think this is the end. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize, I wasn't here for my hosanna for rural engagements, doing something else, so I just wanted to say thank y'all for that. Keep Sherry happy. It's the best money we spend for rural in this state, and this is more in the nature for the freshmen sitting here. People don't realize this, but when we got here in 2019, DED blew itself up on purpose. It went from 700-ish FDEs to less than 200, and the result of that was a nimble, quick, highly responsive machine, a team of folks that are unsurpassing this state. Again, ruining my image here, but, and we have a director and a former director sitting here, I can see the other one. I just wanted to thank you all. I'll be out the door here in 15 months, all right, so we gavel out, you know, the seniors here in 26, May, whatever, we'll come back for a little bit in September, but I just wanted to thank you all for the responsiveness that you have always shown, the courtesies you've always shown. I have quirks of nature, you guys get that, and thank you for humoring me, but I did want to say one thing. BJ didn't come up to the microphone, and so he's not going to get by that easily, so I've been at the Broadband experience since 2016 in deadly earnest, so is he. First with Farm Bureau, then as our director, and people might not realize this, but I all of the states, the United States, Missouri, it's number three in terms of the bead funding that we got, and most in the entire country per capita. That's not an accident. That is a result of this team, this department, the dedication that you guys have put into this, and I just want to thank you all for that, and I just want to thank you all for being here, and I want to thank you all for being here, and I want to thank you all for being here, and I want to thank you all for being here,folks have shown to this most important thing I will do in my life. I know that and we could not have done any of it without the support from you folks at DED so I just want to go on record on that and say thank you for what you do you probably don't hear that nearly enough but it's it's been an amazing experience it's not done yet but I just want to say before we get out of here what what an amazing group of people you have here director and what a great team and please treat them right. Thank you thank you Mr. Chairman. Okay anything additional for the Missouri Department of Economic Development before we conclude today? Seeing none thank you for being with us today we appreciate your time and that will conclude the fiscal year 2026 budget presentation for the Missouri Department of Economic Development. Committee members of course tomorrow we have a technical session I think everyone's aware of that this particular point in time and so my intention still is to you know if possible continue as scheduled with our hearing tomorrow is the Attorney General's Office obviously and the Department of Social Services Mohealthnet division as well as the Department of Conservation. We'll just see how it goes and Representative Chappell you have a inquiry of the chair or a statement or comment. I'm just asking so do we know yet are they intending to have regular session on Thursday? That is my understanding that we will be third reading. We're here no matter what so yeah there's there's. I'm here I don't know about it can't speak for anybody else but yeah. I got a four-wheel drive for a reason. Obviously you know I'm not although members of the public are welcome to join us in the audience you know we're not taking public testimony tomorrow and so would encourage anyone that might be traveling to you know listen in online and don't risk your health or safety. Obviously the departments and ourselves are here locally so yeah that's my intention so long as we can make it into the building safely you know we'll continue. Having said that you know if it doesn't appear that's the case then you know I certainly reserve the right to cancel and we'll obviously communicate that if and when that decision is made as quickly as possible but that's the idea for now so like I said my intention at this point is to continue and obviously you got to use your discretion and some of us have a little further commute than others but at this point I think we will continue. So with that thanks for everybody your hard work today and with no further business coming before the committee we are adjourned.