Welcome to you so. Representatives Fogel, Black, Boggs, Brown, Chappell, Christensen, Crossley, Cupps, Douglas, Housman, Hine, Calberlow, Kimball, Lewis, Martin, Mayhew, Murray, Owen, Prouty, Riggs, Sharp, Steinhoff, Steinmeier, Taylor, Dell, Taylor, Tim, Vernetti, Voss, Warwick, Young. Good morning, everyone. And just for anyone wondering, we will go in the order of the hearing notice today. And, of course, that starts with the Missouri Secretary of State's office with their fiscal year 2026 budget request. Mr. Secretary, thank you for being with us. If you have any introductions to make or opening comments, please feel free to make those. And then at your discretion, presuming there's no inquiries, we can go ahead and when you're ready, you can begin in your book. Thank you for being with us today. Good morning. Thank you, Chairman Deaton, Vice Chairman Davidson, who was here, and Ranking Minority Leader Fogel and members of the House Budget Committee. For the record, I am Secretary of State Denny Hoskins, and it's an honor to be here this morning to present the budget of the Secretary of State. Sixteen years ago, I sat in your same seat as a member of the House Budget Committee. I appreciate the important work that you do to account for every taxpayer dollar. As you're aware, the current year budget and this budget proposal for the next fiscal year were prepared by Secretary Ashcroft and the prior Secretary of State administration. I'm glad to report that we are within budget for the current fiscal year, but I'm asking for a little grace as I work to mold this budget into my own. The nine major divisions within the Secretary of State office are administrative rules, business services, elections, fiscal and facilities, human resources, information technology, record services and archives, securities, and the state library. We currently have about 204 employees and a $70 billion budget. There are two things I was debriefed on immediately after the election. Number one, the Secretary of State gets sued a lot, although I'm glad to report that there's been no new lawsuits since I took over. And then number two, we get cyber attacked every day. Every day we get cyber attacked because hackers are trying to get into our voter registration as well as our business filings. And with that, I'd be glad to answer any questions or if no questions, we can jump in. I think we can begin. Thank you. All right. We start off on page three in the book. Page three is the Secretary of State summary. We requested $70,156,450 versus the Governor's recommendation of $68,191,000, with the main difference due to the $1.2 million of NDI for the library services, which I will discuss on page 19. There's also some differences, obviously. The Governor's plan includes the new pay plan, which we'll talk about as well. On to page four. Page four, this is the operating core. This is comprised of over $12.9 million for all personal services. And this is the main funding for the Secretary of State office, or the biggest bucket. Page 10, this is flexibility. As in previous years, we are requesting 100% flexibility with our operating core. We did not use the flexibility option in fiscal year 23, 24, and we have no plans to use it in fiscal year 25. Page 11. This is the Governor's pay plan recommendation. Then we have pages 19 and 22. This is the library networking fund and the transfer. The state library is one of the five cultural partners. State statute requires the transfer of 10% of the estimated revenues generated from the athletes and entertainers tax to the library networking fund. This NDI is an increase of the library services fund based on that estimated revenue. We just did 10% based on the estimated revenue. Do you know why the Governor did not recommend this NDI? Do we not expect the revenues to be in? I believe that we do expect, as you will see, being one of the five cultural partners, it is very uncommon that we are fully funded, so I am assuming that the Governor used, even though it says in state statute what we are supposed to receive, you all are the appropriators, and so you all get to decide what we are going to receive. I am assuming that he used that general revenue somewhere else. But your office, and this is other, it is an other fund, your office believed that we would have that revenue available to us? Yes, we do believe that we will have that revenue available to us. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let's see. Page 25 is the job class detail report that lists all the current, there are some in there that we are in the process of going through some of these to see which fit and which may not. But I ask for a little grace as we go through those and hopefully next year we will be able to reduce some of these. Now, Mr. Secretary, and you are aware in this General Assembly, obviously we have term limits for better or for worse, I think there are some good and there are some bad, and people like to talk about term limits in this building, and in recent years we have had legislators, some now term limited, and focus on certain things, and now some of those are gone, and I am really going to try to take a concerted effort to pick up the slack in some of those areas. One of those being vacant FTE, and I don't know if you have any, but we need to take a look at that. I agree. And, you know, hopefully there is none over 12 months, but anyhow, I am sure you are taking a look at that. We are, especially those that are over 12 months, and I think I recognize the former State Rep and former State Senator that really focused a lot on those. I will say that when I came into office and we went through the current lawsuits against the Secretary of State office, they debriefed me on that, and they said, hey, we have eight attorneys, and I said, that's great, and then we went through the list of the open lawsuits, and I said, well, how many positions of those do we have filled? One half. So we had half of an attorney, and so I will say that it is, I do have a general counsel and deputy general counsel, and we are working on hiring some other attorneys. Hiring attorneys has seemed to be the biggest obstacle, as well as IT folks. IT folks, we had our IT director retire at the end of December after, I believe, 35 years in state government. So I believe the oldest FTE that we have is from 2022. I will also say that when you have the prior administration who is running for a different position, he had a tough time, I think, maybe filling some of these positions, knowing that he was getting ready to run for a different position. A lot of folks, I mean, they like that job security, and so they were a little reluctant to come over to the Secretary of State office knowing that 2024 was his last year. Yes, thank you for that explanation, and I'm sure this time next year you'll have better ideas to the actual need, be it more or less. Thank you. On to page 28, page 28's grants, donations, and projects. This appropriation provides means of receiving and expending funds office-wide that become available from grants, contracts, or gifts. Page 34, 34 is refunds. This fund is used when a customer overpays for filings when paid by cash or check. The majority of this appropriation is used for business services overpayments. The next one, page 39, this is the investor restitution fund. Our office investigates investment fraud, and as you know, one of your former colleagues, former Representative O'Donnell and current Securities Commissioner O'Donnell, this is under his purview. This appropriation is used as a pass-through for restitution payments to aggrieved investors once money is received from the defendant and is then forwarded to the investors that have been defrauded. Next page, page 44, the family trust fund. Senate Bill 1359 in 2024 moved oversight of this to the Division of Finance, so you will find this in the Division of Finance book going forward. Page 49, 49 is the election cost transfer. This is a transfer from GR into the Election Administration Improvement Fund for election cost, voter roll maintenance, grants to election authorities, transaction costs, et cetera. You will find this one in obviously the fiscal year is a little bit different than election year. or even though we're in a fiscal year 2025 it covers the elections from 2024 and so it's always more in a election year. Page 54 is absentee ballots required by section 115.285 to reimburse election authorities for the cost of using business reply permits on absentee envelopes returned by users. So anytime a local election authority sends out an absentee ballot it comes with a prepaid return envelope and the secretary of state office pays for that. Page 59, this is the federal election reform. This appropriation funds the improvement of administration of elections and special election costs. Long-term goals to update the voter registration system, possibly using these funds. In 2018, 20, 22, and 23 the secretary of state received grants of 7.2 million, 8.1 million, 1.2 million, 1.2 million for election security. And so we dole out much of this fund, much of those federal funds to our local election authorities for election integrity and security. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry you may require? Thank you Mr. Chair and Mr. Secretary, good morning. Good morning to you. Hey, I got a couple quick questions on this one. On page 59, the line comes through federal program election administration funds. There's a sentence however in the core description which just caused me a little confusion, says the annual transfer comes directly from general revenue and all special elections as well as federally required matching for the maintenance. So I don't see any general revenue here on the line. So what are we talking about there? Am I missing something? I see what you're talking about on that last sentence. We'll get the experts. While we're getting the experts, phone in a friend, let's take a look at page 60 where we have considerable unexpended funds for actually the last three years. Was that associated with some ARPA replacement type thing? Or is it that we just haven't found a need for some of those federal funds? Well, it's not that we haven't found a need for it. We're looking at this, our long-term plan is updating the voter registration system. And so our voter registration system is very, very old. And so we're looking at using some of these funds for that. And so yes, in the past, we don't know exactly sometimes how much money that we will receive. And so as you all know, there's a difference between what's being appropriated and the funds that we actually receive. So we have a plan for pulling down the remainder or some portion of that? We do. Yes, our long-term plan, and when I say long-term, we're looking at that now, is updating the voter registration system to be more user-friendly and to work better with our local election authorities with. One other suggestion, which you've probably already done, is that our county clerks typically get in touch with us. You're very familiar with this. Yes. And they always have a list of needs, right? And so I think that some of those needs that they talked to us about, according to this core description, would fit underneath this. And so I might suggest that that might be another avenue to go down to see if we can utilize some of these federal funds. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Representative. Representative Voss, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I am learning a lot about how IT is administered in the state of Missouri. Yes. And unfortunately, yesterday in our DESE budget reviews, we got into quite the conversation around their subsidy payment program that they tried to launch. And well, I don't know that it launched in the way that everyone would hope it would. But what I learned out of that is I'm not sure that we were as integrated with the full OA ITSD organization in planning and implementing that launch. And I believe that you just said you also have your own IT support resources within your office? We do. We have our own IT department within the Secretary of State's office, which is funded by a $5 IT tech fee, which is charged on business services. In fact, and I was going to mention that later, that is up for sunsets in 2026. So we actually have two bills. Representative Banderman has one, which is House Bill 770. And then Senator Huff has Senate Bill 570 to renew that $5 fee. That $5 fee has been around for 30, 40 years. It's never been increased. We're not asking for an increase of the actual amount of the fund. We're just asking for an extension of the sunset from 2026 on. Yes. But we have our own IT department, which is funded by that. And we would like to keep it that way. Well, I'd sure be amenable to having an offline conversation about how IT is structured across the state. My specific question, sir, is how will you engage the Office of Administration and the ITSD Governing Council when you're thinking about your voter registration upgrade? Because I assume that's going to be an electronic system. It will be electronic system. So my encouragement would be to make sure that we're leveraging all the resources and expertise that the state has, regardless of organizational silos, because ultimately, it's all taxpayer money, whether it's a fee or a tax proper. But we just can't afford to execute programs poorly because we know that actually increases cost, it increases time, and dissatisfaction goes through the roof. We've literally shut down small businesses in this state because we didn't operate as a team, and that's really, really unfortunate. We've ruined some people's lives because of our lack of execution on IT, and that's just almost unforgivable. And so if you could, in two minutes or less, explain how you're going to integrate with the full complement of the ITSD resources in the state when you think about planning and implementing your voter registration upgrade. I'd appreciate that. Yeah, most certainly. Currently, we're searching for a new IT director or chief information officer. And so once we've conducted interviews, that will be one of the discussions that we have with them. But I'm open to all discussions. My door is always open. And so working with whoever our new chief information officer is, that will be one of the things that I encourage them to do, is work with OA, ITSD. We have, like you said many times, here in state government, we have silos. And I'm all about breaking down those barriers and working across different agency and department lines to find the best resources that we can. Well, I look forward to seeing updates on your program. Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And while you, I know this is your inquiries, Representative, but I know you asked for some information yesterday around lunchtime, and I've got that information that we've got that information that we can give to you. Okay. Thank you. Representative Young, you're recognized for an inquiry. Yes, thank you, to inquire. Good morning. Good morning. I'm wondering if the federal funds for this item, does it include accessible voting machines for the local jurisdictions, or is it just? Typically, my understanding is we, they can, there's a parameter of different things that they can use, one of which would be election voting machines. And so, when we give these grants or pass through these funds to the local election authorities, then they can choose what they want to spend that on, whether it's election machines, whether it's poll books, whether it's whatever kind of equipment or materials that they want. Okay. So, I just wanted to make sure that that is included. It is an option for the local jurisdictions, the election authorities to? I believe that that, yes. I would believe the yes, that that is one of the qualified expenses that they can use this money for. Thank you. Yep, you're welcome. Okay. I think we can continue. All right. Page 65 is the elections public notice. There's a dollar in there just because it's required by the Missouri Constitution in section 116.260 to publish the full text of statewide ballot measures and newspapers. This is a placeholder in the Secretary of State budget due to no elections in fiscal year 2026. Page 70, document preservation. This allows the Secretary of State to accept and spend privately donated funds to archive and preserve historical documents. I will add that we're going to set up a reception here, I believe, over the next month and invite all the state representatives, especially the freshmen, to come down and visit and go through the state archives. The state archives is truly a treasure and you see many historical documents down there. On page 75. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. On this particular item, and I should have let you introduce it first, but I wanted to get my hand up quick. Yes. But so we see, once again, a significant lapse in this line, however, probably used more of it than 2023. So I'm not certain that our recorders are completely aware of what this particular item can be used for. So would you be able to send me what qualifies as a potential grant item? Yes. Yeah, most certainly. So in my part of the country, we're fairly rural and conversion to digital records is quite time consuming and expensive. And I'm not certain that all of the recorders in my area are aware that perhaps some of that could be grant utilized for that upgrade. No.I agree with you, Representative, and yes, we'd be most certainly glad to send that information to you. And so, is it a 50-50 match or something like that, just right off the top of your head? How does that work? We'll provide that information when we provide the information about what exactly that can be used for. One of the other things we're really going to focus on, and I haven't mentioned yet, is agency outreach, just about what exactly services the Secretary of State offices provide. And so, we're going to be working on that to help inform your constituents about the different services, and whether that's the Wuffner Library, I mean, I don't know if we even talk about that, probably, in here. The Wuffner Library is audio books for those that are visually impaired. And so, I would also encourage you to, we've got a great facility down at the Kirkpatrick Building where you can come in and read a book, and we will tape it, and then it can be used as an audio book to send out to people that are visually impaired. So, there's a lot of services down there that I did not realize after being in the legislature for 16 years, and we want to do a better job of agency outreach about informing, not only you all, but your constituents about all the services that are available. Well, and I think this is one of them. Yes. You know, the people who this was designed for are records keepers at our county level, perhaps aren't completely aware. I know that my recorder had told me about an equipment grant that was around, it's probably been 10 years ago now, and that was the only thing she was aware of, and that it had expired, terminated, probably because it was some one-time federal money kind of a thing. But this, if we're, you know, admittedly, it's not a huge pile of cash, but we only spent $264,000 out of the $400,000 last year, and apparently we did some of that work somewhere. So, you know, it would be great if our, especially in our rural areas, if our recorders were aware that there is at least something to kind of help them out with converting to a digital market. We had an old microfilm machine in the courthouse, and I frequently have to go to the courthouse because among the other things I do, I'm a surveyor also, and the machine broke, and there was no way to get a copy of a deed that was on the old microfilm system. And so for a period of time there, there was just no way to even get a copy of the deed, even for the recorder. So, and like I said, this perhaps would have been that thing, so I can't wait to see the list. I've been asked to present at the county recorders meeting, I believe it's, I don't know if it's in March or April, and so that's one of the things that I'm going to discuss with them during my presentation is how they can utilize this fund. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, anything else on the local records grants on page 75? Okay, I think you can continue. All right, page 80 is the federal grants. The $50,000 in funding is used to support the expenses of the Missouri Historical Records Advisory Board to identify, preserve, and access all historical records in Missouri. The next is the page 86 and 91 is the library networking fund transfer and the library networking fund. This is where we talked about the libraries being one of the five cultural partners, and 10% of the money generated by the athletes and entertainers income tax will be transferred into the library. So this is what we asked for last year, 3.25 million, and then if you add in the $1.2 million from page 19, that comes up to the 4.4. Page 96 is the federal aid to public libraries. This appropriation allows the state to distribute federal funding from the Library Services and Technology Act. Funding is used for grants to improve technology and information services, providing training to public library staff, and to assist libraries to improve services to target populations such as senior citizens and youth. Representative Mayhew, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Once again, there seems to be a considerable lapse on that line for a while. Last year was significantly less, but since those are federal dollars, the only question I have is, are we doing everything we can to pull down that, and perhaps because it looks kind of like the same thing, it's a technology fund, and I'm guessing there's probably a lot of need out there in our libraries for technology upgrades, so since it is federal dollars, is there some reason why we're lapsing on that million bucks? I can't speak to the prior administration, but I will say going forward, which we have about six months of my administration, where we inherited the budget from the prior administration, we will look into it and see why exactly that was unexpended from prior years. Thank you very much. We'll add that to your list. Appreciate it. Next, page 102, is the remote electronic access for libraries. Through MoreNet, this provides internet access training and technical support to public libraries. This also provides licensing of shared electronic reference resources to public libraries, K-12 schools, higher education, and state agencies. As you know, many times our public libraries are maybe the only source of good high-speed internet around our communities, and so I've always been a big proponent that we try and fund as much as we can for library internet access. Next page, 107, state aid for public libraries is required by section 181.060. Funds are distributed to public libraries on a per capita basis and to libraries in less affluent counties for equalization aid. Funds are also used to improve information access and develop stronger library services for Missouri citizens. And then the last page is 112. This is the blue book printing. So we still print blue books. This fund is dedicated for those expenses. We sell those books at cost, and all revenues from selling those blue books are deposited into this fund. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry. You may proceed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I know this is a big shock to everybody. I've been a political science geek my whole life. I was the kid that didn't play outside in the summer of 74 because I was watching the Watergate hearings, and I grew up with the blue book, which was fascinating to me and extraordinarily important, but that was before the internet. Could these funds perhaps be utilized more effectively elsewhere? I know you're using the money from the sales to fund the future printing, but I mean, other than having something for the permanent record, how much is the blue book really needed these days? I think we sold, I'm trying to remember exactly, I had some figures here. Yes, obviously all the stuff can be found on the internet, probably not all in the same spot. So as far as discontinuing the blue book, I would probably be in favor of keeping it since we do, it is on a cost basis, and you can have all that information at your fingertips. However, there's been discussions within this committee in the past about discontinuing the blue book, and that's why we went to a cost system because we used to buy a bunch of them and have a bunch left over, and that was taxpayer expense. But now that it's on a cost system, where we charge for each one that's produced, and recoup that amount of money back into this fund, then I would recommend keeping it at least. That would be my recommendation for now, since it is, we do charge the cost of each one and reimburse that back into the fund. Yeah, I mean, you know, it warms the cockles of my heart to have a blue book in my hands. It's a bit of a nostalgia thing. It is. I would be interested to see what the average age of the individual buying a blue book these days is. I'm fairly confident individuals below a certain age, they're just Googling it, whatever information they might want to have. If I may also, can I take you back to page five? Sure. I didn't get my question asked quickly enough. And this is the core operating budget, and Mr. Secretary, thank you for being here this morning. Yes, thanks for having me. And I recognize that you're, you know, just a little bit into your term here, but this fund has, or this line item has lapsed around $3 million every year for the last three, and yet we see a $2 million increase above what we didn't spend $3 million, $3.1 million on last year. Again, you're just walking in the door. You didn't get to write this budget. The governor's request is, or recommendation is the recommendation. And I want to point out, you're not spending, the department is not spending every GR dollar you get your hand on. And I really want to tell you how much I appreciate that. That's a refreshing change of pace from most of the departments that we're seeing. Yes. But do we maybe need to look forward as you move into the next year and thereafter, maybe really looking to right-size this budget? Yes. Most certainly, you know, obviously you all know the difference between what's been appropriated and then what the actual expenditures are. And sometimes with those expenditures, we...appropriation amount we make it higher than the actual money that we may receive because on some of these line items we may not know how much money is coming in the federal government we may not know what grants that we might receive but yes I I hear you and I understand what you're saying and being a fiscal budget Hulk myself yes we have a lot of different things that we're going to be looking into in this budget thank you sir yep thank you on the blue book I mean have you considered any maybe not disregarding but any changes maybe naming it the red book is that something that's crossed your mind we we have an imprint on it you just stole all my thunder chairman Deaton yes we we are planning on having a red book this year really yes okay great there's been there's been other thing I think two years ago it was red white and blue at one point they wanted to do a camouflage book we are not doing a camouflage book but yes it it might be a different color well happy to break news here in this committee right exciting exciting news just a point of information during the entire time that Jim Kirkpatrick was Secretary of State it was green that's right and one other point when I came back to the legislature and I tried to put into the computer system that I served in the 1980s the computer system would not take it so so I probably don't exist if it wasn't for a state manual yes thank you for that representative Owen anything additional for the Missouri Secretary of State's office representative cabralo you're recognized for an inquiry Thank You mr. chairman more of a comment you'd mentioned early on about the IT hacking yes does anybody ever get through that no no fortunately no one has gotten through it was when I was debriefed by our our cybersecurity director it was very informing about just how many attacks that we get and what security measures that we take we have an off-site data center that backs up everything I mean literally everything that you all do here in the house it comes down to the Secretary of State's office all those documents and so we're gonna that's one of the reasons even though the IT fee does not a sunset until 2026 it would be sure great to get that extended this year I think represent Banderman's bill sunsets it to that sunset to 2030 senator Huff's bill eliminates the sunset and so we would just do whatever the legislature decides but yes it's it's it was very informing to hear about some of the cyber attacks and what they're trying to do and and then I can that's one of the things I can't speak very well I can't speak IT very well and so fortunately we have a good IT team down there to help ward off any security attacks I just thought it was interesting and I want to give your office kudos my dog one of my daughters is in business for herself yes and she wanted to change she had years ago she had had a name for her business she wanted to change that name and she didn't know she didn't want to have to go through the process of a new tax ID and a new federal ID so she called the Secretary of State's office and got all the list of what she had to do to do that without having to change all those numbers so they was very very helpful great so thank you for that but she did all that she got it all accomplished on Friday and got it all switched and was done and on the way up here Monday she called me she says dad she says somebody called and said something and it was something to do with her new name so so those people are watching what happens and they was it was a scam of some sort trying to get her to do something and I said I'm sure if it was the Secretary of State's office they would they wouldn't do it that way you know but right yeah that's one of the things too I'm a lot of you all may have heard of the FinCEN and their new requirement for LLC's to provide documentation about who exactly is in the LLC's currently I think that's on hold it's kind of gone back and forth but as part of our agency outreach program we're trying to help those that have businesses and corporations if they're trying to eliminate you know get rid of those and and and close those right now there's some scams going out with with folks that are saying hey send me $500 or $1,000 and I'll make sure that with the FinCEN's new rules that everything's taken care of and then they're taking the money and not actually turning in the paperwork so yes there's there's a lot of scams out there appreciate your help thanks yes thank you anything additional for the Secretary of State's office Representative Murray you recognized for an inquiry just a quick inquiry first and foremost I would like to thank you for being here yes thanks for having me represent and commend the work that the many you know Board of Elections and the poll workers that they do across the state yes our elections run smoothly I just want to know if there were any efforts in you know on the horizon as far as like recruitment for poll workers like I've heard stories that it has been challenging to get people to work the polls and I don't know if there was anything that we could be doing as far as like from a funding perspective to help help those efforts of recruitment or if you all had that on your radar yes that most certainly it is on the radar and I attended my first Secretary's National Secretary State Conference with both Republican and Democrat Secretary of State's it's been about two weeks ago and brought back some ideas of what other states are doing to recall recruit poll workers and part of that is is they're going to high schools and working with National Honor Societies and civics clubs and FBLA chapters and things like that to recruit poll workers because when you tell a high school student that hey number one you get a day off from school and number two you get paid for it it has been very successful in other states and so that's one of the things that we're going to start working on it and promoting between now and and the next primary election in August 2026 thank you okay see nothing additional and you have any closing comments no just thank you all for the opportunity to be here today like I said in my opening remarks I know you have a big big job I sat in your seats 16 years ago a lot of late nights a lot of books that you go through and it's a turning of the pages can get quite monotonous but thank you all for the great work that you all are doing Thank You Secretary Hoskins that will conclude the fiscal year 2026 budget requests from the Missouri Secretary of State's office and with that we will now move to the Missouri Department of Commerce and Insurance for their fiscal year 2026 budget request so please come forward and I see you dropping those witness forms there appreciate that course reminder to everybody today if you are providing testimony the committee need you to introduce yourself and provide a witness form director at your discretion and please make any reductions you'd like if you have any opening comments you're welcome to make those as well and your discretion assuming we have no inquiries before you're ready to get started you can begin in your book when you're ready all right Thank You mr. chairman and members of the committee good morning I'm Mick Campbell acting director of the department I also serve as the Commissioner of Finance for the Division of Finance within the department sitting alongside me is Brenda Horstman who's currently the acting director of administration for us and we certainly appreciate the opportunity discussed our budget book today with you all and answer any questions that you may have the department's core function is to protect citizens and ensure a fair marketplace for the industries and professions that we oversee the department is organized into nine different divisions an administration division three divisions related to insurance industry oversight there's also the Division of Finance Division of Credit Unions Division of Professional Registration the Public Service Commission and the Office of the Public Council our department is just over 95% fee funded and only one division the Office of the Public Council is operated by general revenue so with that if there's any questions I will if not I will start on page two of the budget any inquiries of a general nature before we get started in the book in the book this morning all right you may proceed thank you thank you mr. chairman page two is a new decision item this is the governor's pay plan the governor's pay plan would provide a 1% salary increase for every two years of continuous service up to 10% for department employees page 13 this is the department administration core this appropriation supports a portion of the staff providing department-wide functions such as legislative coordination budget and planning human resources and accounting no change for FY 25 core page 19 a new decision item DCI director salary increase this governor recommended salary increase for the director of commerce and insurance of four thousand one hundred fifty nine dollars annually I know this didn't come from you obviously the directly or at the department level but do you know what this is this were you informed does this equate to anything is it like a percent it I mean it is a percentage you could math it out but is it like ten percent or five percent or do we know or was there any rationale you were given as to four thousand one hundred fifty nine it's mr. chairman thanks for question I'm not aware of rationale as to the amount that was selected to put in the governor's rec but certainly can look into that and get you an answer at a later time either later today or tomorrow yeah I feel like there's a methodology that I've missed somewhere that I haven't been able to ascertain and it's you know we'll move on it's a because like one four thousand one hundred fifty nine you know why not four thousand one hundred fifty or why not four thousand you know so it's a very specific number and I feel like there is a method or a methodology that is being utilized I'm just not sure what it is appreciate that thank you we'll research that and get you an explanation okay appreciate ityou page 21 this is the department administration transfer this appropriation funds the department administration core no changes from FY 25 age 26 insurance operations core the insurance operation appropriation supports the department's efforts to oversee the insurance industry in Missouri no change from FY 25 core page 33 health insurance counseling core this appropriation supports federal grant funding which provides counseling and education to seniors and on health insurance coverage and Medicare benefits no changes from FY 25 core page 38 Division of Credit Unions core the Division of Credit Unions is responsible for the regulation of state charter credit unions in Missouri no change from FY 25 core page 44 Division of Finance core the division excuse me Division of Finance is responsible for the oversight of state charter banks and non-depository lenders no change from FY 25 core page 51 savings and loan supervision fund transfer to the finance fund this transfer appropriation provides funds to the Division of Finance from the savings and loan supervision fund for regulation of savings and loan associations no change from FY 25 core page 56 residential mortgage licensing fund transfer to the finance fund this transfer appropriation provides funds to the Division of Finance for expenses of administering the residential mortgage licensing law no change from FY 25 core representative Chapel you have an inquiry you may proceed thank you mr. chairman Kim can we go back to page 52 sir yes so I and I understand the purpose of the of the fund and the appropriation comes from other we're not talking about GR dollars here but I but I noticed that we're lapsing more than 50% every year is the fund being underutilized is there something we can do to increase that or do we just need to recognize we're really needing to have this appropriated about 70,000 so thank you for the question and this is kind of an obscure transfer that we utilize in some cases not every year because we only have a very we only have two savings and loan associations that we oversee now that number has dwindled but the amount of expenses that we have can fluctuate year-to-year depending on our examination cycle so in this case like where we lapsed about 50% that would likely be due to the fact that we had a an exam cycle that did not require a lot of hours or expenses for the previous year certainly if we were to have other institutions that were to convert to a savings and loan or the other way where we've lost some then you know it's it's you know it's possible that that would increase but it fluctuates based on our examination cycle which can be different year to year so what okay because I was gonna ask what is the examination cycle how frequently are you go through this process with an SNL it's typically 18 months but sometimes it can be less than that and we've got to yeah we have to so 18 months typically we have an exam of one or the other of them right and we're lapsing $65,000 every year well so yes for the last three fiscal years we have okay and one of our SNL's is a very large institution the other SNL is a very small institution so that also provides some additional complexities to us that we foresee going into the future with that but okay well we obviously want to watch it going forward if we continue to see that kind of that kind of lapse would maybe we need to re-examine the the budget request have to have those conversations thanks sir thank you you all right I think we were on page 61 savings and loan supervision fund transfer to general revenue statute requires a division of finance to transfer any fund balance exceeding 5% of the amount assessed each year to savings and loan to general revenue no change from FY 25 core page 66 this is a new decision item for Missouri family trust company transfer legislation enacted in 2024 amended the Missouri family trust company act to move oversight of Missouri family trust company registrations from the Secretary of State's office to the Division of Finance division requests appropriation as a transfer to the finance fund to cover the portion of salary fringe benefits and expenses related to the administration of Missouri family trust company act the division is not requesting a new FTP s or E&E for this new responsibility and as you heard previously from a secretary the Secretary of State's office has requested a corresponding core reduction to eliminate their appropriation associated with this oversight page 69 professional registration administration core this appropriation supports the various administrative services provided to the boards that regulate professions within the state no change from FY 25 page 77 Board of Accountancy the board licenses and regulates certified public accountants and accounting firms in Missouri no change from FY 25 page 82 Missouri Board of Architects professional engineers professional and surveyors and landscape architects this board licenses and regulates those aforementioned professions no change from FY 25 page 88 Board of Chiropractic examiners this board licenses and regulates chiropractors in Missouri no change from FY 25 page 93 Board of Cosmetology and barber examiners you have an inquiry you may proceed Thank You mr. chair good morning appreciate you all being here can you all walk me through the process for how you all subcontract the testing sites where these tests take place so thank you for the question I'm gonna ask division director of PR Sheila Solon and Wes Sutton director of legislative and budget for PR to come up and help with that question thank you good morning mr. chair members of the committee Wes Sutton director of budget and legislation for your Missouri division of professional registration we work through some testing companies for many of our boards including barbers and cosmetology and cosmetologists I believe your question may be specifically on a constituent you've had recently remind me are they Albanian is that correct you read my mind yes had a constituent wanted to get his testing done the testing site would not provide it's not like the top five languages are most common which certainly understand he was willing to pay out-of-pocket for a translator testing site did not comply and encouraged him to go to Illinois to do that so we actually your office reached out to us and I talked to the board shortly after that so this was I think it was Thursday of last week so we're kind of working on this right now we are working with our national partners who help us with all the testing compliance to find a solution to this I think what we are moving towards and this is not completely completed yet but from talking to everybody this is where we're heading is that I think we're finding a solution for them to be able to get a testing aid that would allow them to be able to get it translated into their language they're covering the kind of additional cost that would come with it which is I think it's less than $50 but I'll check on that and make sure so I think we are on our way to being able to get them tested awesome I appreciate it certainly would like to encourage folks to do business in Missouri as opposed to Illinois always always thank you thank you we can proceed now thank you yeah still on 93 there are no change to that FY 25 core page 98 Missouri Dental Board the board licenses and regulates dental professions in Missouri no change from FY 25 core page 104 board of embalmers and funeral directors the board licenses and regulates embalmers funeral directors funeral establishments and pre-need sellers and services in Missouri no change from FY 25 core representative Martin you have an inquiry you may proceed inquiry on so these are these are fees for the licenses that they that these people are acquiring correct and then what are there have those fees increased a lot or are they they have a you know last time they were creased years ago as their plans I was kind of curious the status of that appreciate the question I'm gonna ask Wesker Sheila to come up and help with that I just say that because I know sometimes in my business the fees that I'll pay for different offload fees for example things like that with my business you know maybe they maybe haven't increased for 20 years all of a sudden they get you know thrown up really high and questions about that and Sheila Solan division director of professional registration great question we have the lowest fees or some of the lowest fees in the country we're very proud of that we run like business there was a study that was done out last year a national study and we were tied for the best in the country as far as the least amount of red tape and the lowest fees hopefully we can continue to strive to have low fees but we're very proud of that fact representative Brown you have an inquiry on this you may proceed thank you mr. chair I know we've heard a lot of horror stories in here about IT and things like that but I think you all have had some real success rolling outonline, things like that. Maybe you might want to speak to that just a little. Yeah, I'm gonna ask Sheila or Wes to come up. They're the experts on that one. I'm getting my steps in, thank you. Yes, great question. We have had a labor of love and suffering and thousands and thousands of extra hours on our staff to upgrade. We were a paper-driven division, meaning if you wanted to become a professional, we licensed 300 professions. So let's say if you want to be a doctor or a nurse, you would fill out a paper application, put money or a check in an envelope and mail it to us. And so since August 1st of 2022, with the help of all the legislators and the governor's office, we were able to secure $21 million in ARPA funding. And so for the past two and a half years, we have been working on this upgrade. And I have to say it's been a partnership between OAIT, CIO has helped us along with our commissioner, Zeller, helping us to be successful. We hired a project manager to make sure to look out for our best interests. And also, while I'm not saying everything's been perfect, we have worked together with our vendors for a successful launch. We went live four weeks ago, January 14th, we went live with our system and I'm proud to report that we have had 51,000 accounts claimed, 22,000 individual licenses issued, 10,000 of them being nurses, 625 licenses issued and we're continuing to do that. We have set up a call center in St. Louis to help folks who are challenged with setting up an account, remembering their email that they may have established 30 years ago. And I won't say it's been a perfectly smooth landing, but it's been fairly smooth and we are working on daily fixes and weekly fixes. This is gonna be a long term, we've been told it's the most complex and difficult upgrade that our vendor has done in the entire country. I'm very proud of our staff who have worked overtime, weekends to help this be accomplished. And in our hearts and minds, it's about the 540,000 folks that we license to make this easier for them, to help them to be able to get to work faster and to support their families. Thank you for that. As one of those 540,000, I appreciate the new system. Also as a person who does not trust our mail service very much anymore, I really appreciate what you all have done and it's a really good system. Thank you for that. Thank you so much. Thank you, anything additional on that item? Or anything else on this core? Okay, I think we can proceed. Page 109. State Board of Registration for the Healing Arts. This board licenses and regulates a variety of healing art professions in Missouri. No change from FY25 core. Thank you. Page 115. State Board of Nursing. This board licenses and regulates nursing in Missouri. The only change from FY25 core is removing the one-time expenditure of five million GR funding for nursing education incentive grants. Page 122. New decision item. State Board of Nursing. Nursing incentive grants allows the board to award up to one million in general revenue funding for competitive nursing grants to institutes of higher education. Representative Chappell, any inquiry on this? We may proceed. Thanks, sir. So on this particular grant, are institutions allowed to apply multiple times for this opportunity? Thank you for your question, Representative. I'm gonna have either Sheila or Wes come up to help with that. Good morning, again, everybody. Wes Sutton, Division of Professional Registration. They get one per year. So this is, while it's been listed as a one-time grant for each of the last three years, we've had three million in GR, if I remember correctly, going back to FY23, five million in GR in FY24, five million in GR in FY25. At each of those times, it's been a one-time grant, or a one grant per institution. Any institution that is fully accredited with us has the opportunity to apply for a grant. And what we're looking for in these grants is the ability, in a lot of cases, to create more seats. So when you have a nursing school in one area or another that sees more applicants than they may have seats in a given year, we really, especially in nursing, don't wanna be turning away anyone who's a qualified candidate. And so these grants have allowed us to be able to create those extra slots. So in the past, like I said, these have always been one-time. The governor's office made the decision this year that we are wanting to add one million in GR ongoing for this, and so that is what the NDI is for. Yeah, I'm not questioning the need at all. So an institution may apply for grant help every year. Correct. And how many, so this was created in FY23. Do we know how many such grants have been allocated? It's actually, so this funding source coming from GR started in FY23. This program actually has been around before that, and it's not even being allowed to use nursing funds for. I can get you a full list over time of what we've done. We have it all at our office, so I'll get that together and get that to you, Representative. Okay, thank you very much. Absolutely, thank you. Page 124, Board of Optometry. This board licensed and regulates optometrists in Missouri. No change from FY25. Page 129, State Board of Pharmacy. The board licenses and regulates pharmacies and pharmacy-related professions in Missouri. No change from FY25. Page 135, this is the State Board of Podiatric Medicine. This board licenses and regulates podiatrists in Missouri. No change from FY25. Page 140, Missouri Real Estate Commission. The commission licenses and regulates real estate brokers and salespersons in Missouri. No change from FY25. Page 146, Missouri Veterinary Medical Board. This board licenses and regulates veterinarians and veterinary technicians in Missouri. No change from FY25. I do have a question on real estate, and so I assume Director Sullivan or Mr. Sutton is going to need to come forward on this one as well, but there's, you know, and I forget all the particulars, but I know there's been litigation relating to real estate salespeople and their obligations, and I think there's been a settlement as it relates to that that I don't know if fair to say places new obligations on them or requirements as to how they're to conduct themselves. Is that something that you all now, I don't know if police is the right word, but regulate or ensure that those conditions are being met? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am going to ask Sheila or Wes to come up and help with your question. We comply with all of the laws at this point in time, and we can get you more answers if you would like, but we get a lot of phone calls and email inquiries, and so at this point in time we have been returning those calls and phone calls and explaining to them the new law to the best of our abilities. So I guess, and I think one of the requirements to your salesperson, there's some written something that people need to sign ahead of time. I think I understand that's one of the conditions. So for example, if that didn't happen and there was a complaint, you all would, I guess, have the authority or the power to investigate that and potentially take action if that was not being met, and so that would fall under your, I guess, domain. That is correct, and with our new system you could do it online instead of mailing in a complaint. So yes, we comply with all the laws, and for us right now it's been more of an educational sort of thing, reaching out to our licensees. Great, thank you. And I'll throw in also continuing education helps to get the word out to our licensees about these changes and how it impacts them. Thank you. You can continue. All right, finishing up on page 146, there was no change to the Veterinary Medical Board Core, page 151. Representative Chappell, you have an inquiry, you may proceed. Thank you, sir. So on 146, 109,494, it's a very specific number. And it's the same number that is current for 25, and the same specific number for 24. It was an increase of $493 over 23 for some reason, but we're lapsing between $65,000 and $70,000 every year on this. I don't mean to sound like a broken record, but that's kind of what I do. So why are we lapsing this? Again, I realize it's other, but if we're not utilizing it, do we have opportunities to, again, right size the budget on all these? I see the same thing for the real estate licensing and everything else. Yeah, thank you, Representative. I'm gonna have Wes come up and help answer your question. Hi there again, Representative, good to see you. So for Veterinary Medical Board, so here at Professional Reg, we work extremely diligently to try to combine work between different boards as much as we can. So in the case of our Veterinary Medical Board, the same team who does work for them is also working with our Board of Examiners for Hearing Instrument Specialists, our Interior Design Council, and our State Committee of Dietitians. So at this time, with the way we have it kind of put together, instead of having to use up PS from the Veterinary Board and then separate out our folks on Interior Design Council have to spend their own PS and everybody else, we try to have staff who's able to work on multiple boards.simultaneously. So this is our attempt to be good stewards of our licensees money and save them as much as possible. It could be in a given year that when we hit what I would call renewal times for one board or another that we have some extra staff some extra needs. Also some of this falls into E&E. A lot of our boards have E&E in case there's some sort of some sort of litigation that comes to us. So for one example right now you take pharmacy right now with the bill passed last year relating to 340B. That has been something that's seen some litigation which includes suing of the Board of Pharmacy. So they are needing that E&E to spend for outside counsel for that litigation purpose. So it's also that some of it's there in case it happens that we have the need from a litigation standpoint and instead of having to come to you all and beg for a supplemental for that day that may come we kind of maintain that E&E for those sorts of times. Well I didn't realize veterinarians were such a litigious class of individuals. They're not currently but you never know. Yeah I I appreciate the economy of scale. In government it's really but I think the budgets should reflect that that's what you're doing. I understand. You see what I'm saying? Because if if we're continuing to see lapse on these line items every year there must be some explanation and to your comment and I know you didn't mean it negatively. You're you're a good guy I know you will right? So when I hear the department say we'd rather do it this way than to have to come beg you for a supplemental may I suggest that if the budgets weren't like this year after year after year asking for a supplemental wouldn't be nearly as difficult? Totally understand and I'll tell you from my standpoint I actually have a few ideas I want to sit down with you after this to go over that I think you'll really like that will help to get this budget to where you really think it should be. I actually think we have a few things we could work together on on that. Always open for a conversation with you sir and I appreciate the help from the departments. Thank you. Always. You may proceed. Page 151 professional registration administration transfer to general revenue in accordance with statute this transfer appropriation is for reimbursement of services rendered by general revenue supported agencies no change from FY 25. Page 156 transfers to PR fees fund this transfer appropriation is in accordance with statute for reimbursement of services rendered by the divisions for support and expenses furnished to a board no change from FY 25 core. Page 161 transfers for startup loans for new board programs this transfer is necessary to allow the division to borrow funds from a board within the division to start the operations of a new board no change from FY 25 core. Page 166 transfer to startup loan payback this transfer is necessary to allow a new board to repay another board for the amount borrowed to start its operations this transfer only occurs when the new board has a sufficient fund balance to fund its operations and repay the amount borrowed no change from FY 25. Page 171 office of the public council core office of the public council is a statutory representative of utility consumers in cases before the Public Service Commission and in the courts no change from FY 25 core. Page 177 Public Service Commission manufactured housing core the manufactured housing program registers manufacturers dealers and installers of new manufactured homes and modular units no change from FY 25 core. What's the to steal some of representative Chappell's thunder here what's the rationale or is it the same litigation you look on 178 so on manufactured housing we look on 178 it seems very very consistent the appropriation levels hovered right around a million dollars and the actual expenditures have been fairly consistent as well or at least as a percentage of the appropriation authority appropriation authorities grown a little bit and the expenditures have grown a little bit but we you know consistently lapsing six hundred fifty thousand five hundred eighty five thousand six hundred twenty four thousand dollars which isn't a month it isn't you know in the scale of the budget but it is in the scale of this appropriation it's about half annually so is all that authority truly needed or is there something that happens every three years that well it would appear it'd have to be every four years because I'm looking at the last three years so just talk to me a little bit about what what we're looking at here thank you mr. chairman for the question I am going to ask a member of our Public Service Commission that's with us today to come up and help with the answer thank you members of the committee my name is Lloyd Wilson I'm the director of administration for the Public Service Commission I think the brief answer to your question is on a manufactured housing program up until about three years ago we had we needed to increase the fees on that program we didn't have enough revenue to come in to fully staff that program and we worked with the General Assembly the governor's office and we were able to change several of those fees to rule and what that did was it allowed us to go ahead and fully staff up and upgrade our fleet so the history you're seeing there was for a period of time where we weren't able to fully utilize our funds because we didn't have the revenue so I'm looking at actual expenditures on page 181 through February 3rd and it's a hundred ninety one thousand dollars one hundred ninety one thousand five hundred thirty four dollars to be exact so I mean do you anticipate a plethora of expenses through the end of the fiscal year because I mean that program is fully staffed we will probably have some lapse but it should be less lapse than what we had in the past okay do you think the expenditures are fairly consistent throughout the fiscal year is that would that be a fair characterization I think so yes it's not you don't have like a bunch of invoices that hit in in April that you know it's not really a cyclical type of program okay all right thank you that's very helpful I'm sorry represented cups do you have something on this yeah to inquire proceed not to seal representative chapels thunder or the chairman's thunder I must I I think some of us here on this committee this morning are making this assumption and correct us if we're wrong because there is a demand by numerous members to kind of right size some of this stuff but we're going through this and it's like hey this is the same as what it's been this is the same as what it's been this is the same as what it's been and then we look at actual expenditures and so the actual expenditures seem like that they've fit into a little bit of a groove of and then we we have some of these big lapses I'm assuming that in many of these instances the reason that the appropriation doesn't necessarily match what we've actually been expending you know we only have a we've kind of got our blinders on we can see the last three or four years is just because at one time when you all came to you know I remember looking at this and sub appropriations committee a couple years ago and talking about it you know it's like every one of them it was the expenditures were half of what the actual appropriation was and then the next year you come and it's like oh this is what the this is what it's been and so this is what we're going to ask for is I'm I'm assuming that's correct is that the reason that a lot of the appropriations in the book that we're looking at are what they are is just because at one particular time in history that's what they were and so that's what you come and ask for from appropriation authority just to make sure that you have enough you know I know how the part I know how folks on that side of this room working comparison us like well better air on the side of making sure we have enough and then as some of these some of these actual expenditures fit into a little more narrow groove it's just easy when you're making your budget book for the next year to be like well that's what it's been for the last ten years so that's what we're going to go to the Budget Committee and ask for is that a fair assumption here this morning well I think represent appreciate the question and I think just in general from the department at the department level is you know as a mostly fee-funded agency some of these lapses a lot of them are attributed to like staff turnover when you're looking at some of the personal service and that can fluctuate on an annual basis for several reasons you also have in some cases that we have you know lapsed E&E some of that's due to less travel some of that's due to an increased use of maybe technology I'm I'm with you but like I said some of these have fit into a groove you and but in my time here it's like I could probably I can go to my office and get the budget book from five years ago and a lot of these it's like that's what the core appropriation is that's what we're that's what we're going to ask for and because it's like the I understand that once again correct me if I'm wrong but you you guys sure on these fee-funded things you guys sure aren't going to core reduce it yourself if we were to say we need to right-size this that's one thing but you're not going to go in and say hey we're having you know 60% expenditures of what we have asked for for the last ten years let's go ahead and just make sure we have all the authority we need and ask for what we did last year yeah we're certainly open to having those conversations as much mentioned earlier answering the question to have those conversations with you all as to what that may look like going forward certainly happy to do that representative cups rich reminder with the Public Service CommissionWhat we'll do is we'll pull out a longer time horizon. That's actually what I was going to request, because I know some of these, there are a rationale and a reason that we, but some of them there aren't. It's just that this is, we needed this appropriation authority in 2014, and then now as things maybe have changed or morphed, or we've split this up or that up, we still keep coming back and asking. And I get it. I was a teacher. I used to recycle lesson plans. And then, funny story, didn't always necessarily stick to them like, or it never went the same as what it did the year before. But at least you had the lesson plan from the year before. And so as you're preparing a budget book, it's like, oh, I'll just ask for the same as we did last year. This is not adversarial. I'm just asking. I and I think others here on the committee this morning are operating under the assumption that that's why some of these seemingly just aren't anywhere close to what the actual last three, four, or five years of expenditures have been. That's something we can talk about offline. That's something that I think the new sub-appropriations chairman would probably like to take a closer look at. But it is something, not just you all, but everybody, is we're just continually one after another after another, where the appropriation that you're here asking us for isn't even close to what we have been spending. And there has to be some sort of reason that that is. Once again, I'm just assuming that it's because, well, we just, that's what we asked for last year. So that's what we're going to ask for this year. Yeah, thank you, Rich. Representative Chappell, you're recognized for an inquiry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Since my thunder's been stolen, it's not you all alone. We're seeing this in every department. And your budget request is much smaller than many others. And so it gets overlooked sometimes. But this all reminds me of the old story. Newlyweds, they come home. And the young bride, she's going to cook a meal for her husband for the very first time. She cooks ham. And he says, this is terrific, but I don't understand why you cut the end off the ham. And she said, well, I don't know. Mom always did. So they call Mom. Why we cut the end off the ham, Mom? She said, I don't know. Grandma always did. So they called Grandma. And she said, well, you have to, sweetheart. The pan's too short. There was a viable reason at one time. But because it's, quote unquote, the way we've always done it, it becomes a life of its own. And in our efforts across the board. And it's not fair for me to hold a larger department accountable for clear and obvious laps and not do the same thing for all of the departments as well. I'm not anti-education. I'm anti-bad budgeting. And so I know we're going to talk. Mr. Sutton and I are going to talk. And I look forward to that conversation. And I appreciate the support of the vice chair of the sub-approvals committee for this particular set of bills. And I realize that it makes people nervous and squishy when we start taking away appropriation. But the reality of it is, the only way we don't, I don't know how to make things better and leave them exactly the same at the same time. In all my years of public service, I've never figured out how to do that. And so I would really appreciate and encourage the departments and all of the subdivisions within the department your help. Let's find the squishy spots that we can take away without anybody throwing a fit and try and get this budget under control. Thanks, sir. OK, I think we can continue now. Thank you. Page 183, this is Manufactured Housing Consumer Recovery Transfer. This appropriation establishes the transfer authority from the Manufactured Housing Fund into the Manufactured Housing Consumer Recovery Fund. No change from FY 25. Public Service Commission Core, page 188. The Public Service Commission is an independently governed commission that regulates investor-owned electric, natural gas, steam, water, and sewer utilities in Missouri. There's no change to the core. Page 195, it's a new decision item, Public Service Commission. This decision item is requesting additional PS authority to fill vacant positions in the approximate amount of $1.4 million. Representative Chappell, you may proceed. Thanks, sir. So since we're talking about vacant positions, how many vacant positions are there in the department? Department-wide, I believe we have right around 50. It's either 50 or 51 currently. And how many of those are six months or older? I don't have that information with me today, but can get it to you. Can we get that? Yeah. Because if I can do it without you for six months, I don't really need you. I don't know. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Proceed. Page 200, Public Service Commission, a new decision item. This decision item is requesting additional FTE, PS, and E&E authority needed for PSC to invest in securing Missouri's energy needs. It's 16 FTE and a total approach of approximately $1.4 million. So on this one, what, and this is not something, this is not an expansion or a continuation, albeit with different funds. This is like truly a new, this is new. Yes, Mr. Chairman. New program, new. Correct. What is the timeline for this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask Rich Germiner to come back up from the PSC to answer your question. Yeah, Mr. Chairman, Rich Germiner with the Missouri Public Service Commission. The power mode proposal seeks to drastically change how we do integrated resource planning here in the state. Currently, we are showing very tight margins with our available electricity versus our needs, having enough generation to meet our load. That has really changed drastically in about the last three to four years. As increased load has come on, on-shoring, remanufacturing, electrification has really changed the game. When you have flat and declining load growth, your planning process isn't quite as important. And that has changed drastically. So we want to totally revamp how we do integrated resource planning and how we map out our future electricity needs. And we need staff, and we need more mind power to be able to do that, things we don't currently do today in the same way. So this is going to be a study, or? No, no. We have a legislative proposal that has been working its way through the process. A couple of members of the Utilities Committee are here today that heard that. It's changing how we do integrated resource planning, which is an annual ongoing effort to understand what our investor-owned utilities have in terms of their generation capabilities and the load that they're seeing come onto the system and how we plan for that. OK, so this is continuous. And I see you're asking for 16 FTE here. You got PS. It's mainly PS, E&E. And so what are these people going to be doing? And I see you've got an assistant engineer, professional engineer. You've got an economist in here, job class. Yeah, highly specialized and professional individuals that can analyze the integrated resource plans that are submitted by the utilities, also to work with the utilities and the stakeholders to developing better integrated resource plans so that we are adequately planning for what we need to develop and build in this state. So they would be involved in the rate-making process or rate setting? No, these are folks that would be involved in the planning and analysis. These are outside of integrated resource plan is not done inside a rate case. It is a totally separate process. Do you do any of that currently? We do it currently today. However, the integrated resource plans, as filed, all we have in terms of integrated resource plan requirements are established in rule. They are not directly and explicitly established in statute in the way that we believe that they need to be to make the integrated resource plans meaningful, valuable, and enforceable. Right now, when an integrated resource plan is produced by one of our investor-owned utilities, it is deposited at the Public Service Commission. But it can be out of date the moment it's dropped off because it is not a well-developed and meaningful process as it has been over the last several years. The last time we updated our integrated resource planning structure was back in 2011. On page 201 in box 4, the last sentence there says this program would be funded by the annual PSC assessment. Is that funding mechanism included in this legislation that's moving that hasn't passed? Or is that promulgated by rule? Is that something you already do? And if so, what is that? And I guess the funds are there by which to support it. Just help me understand what that PSC assessment process is. The existing funding mechanism is established in statute. The Public Service Commission retains a portion of utility revenues to support the activities of the commission. In order for that to change, it would be a statutory change. The last adjustment was in 2021. And it is currently set at 315 thousandths of a percent of the company's revenues. It has remained relatively flat. And as we've seen pay plans and other adjustments through the General Assembly over the years, that cap is getting bumped up against. And so in order to facilitate doing all the work in changing how we do business, we're going to look at potentially revising that cap. But these funds do not come through general revenue.That's not, and that'd take a statutory change, but that's not currently included in the policy bill that you mentioned that's moving. There's a separate bill that deals with that issue. There is a bill, a different bill, that somebody has somewhere and it would do that. Does that bill have to pass for this to work? Is the money, is there, and I have an honest question because I haven't myself pulled 1607, so I mean, do you have a sufficient fund balance to support this for a period of time? Not necessarily maintain a specific fund balance, but in order to make sure that we're planning appropriately to get these people on board. So, sorry not to, but before I forget, I didn't understand that. So go back to, there's a cap from the utilities and what they generate, and it's a hard cap, but you don't necessarily, they don't just send that on over you have to like show reasonable expenses that would, and then you can bill up to that and then generate that from the utilities. And so I guess you don't have this money yet because you haven't done it and you wouldn't get it until you do it, and when you do it, you could get it so long as it comes in below the cap, which it might or might not. And there's still an appropriation authority line that you guys maintain, it would still do that. Okay, very interesting. Obviously energy is, there's very important and a lot of talk and incredible need and a lot of new industries and things that are creating a great demand and load, so appreciate that. Representative Riggs, you have something on this? Please proceed. I do, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank you for bringing this forward. So, sorry to do this to everybody. It's called the Need for Speed, and all my broadband providers come in the same thing. So we saw a geometric progression from 10-1 to 100-100 in the last 10 years. Geometric, that's how we define it. Look at the same thing now. My corner of the state lost out on a data center because we didn't have enough power. So we're not just talking about electric vehicles, we are talking everyday needs with computing whatever that's going on with AI everywhere. So to me, this is similar to what we did with the broadband office. We stood that thing up in a hurry because it was on us. This stuff is on us, and as a state, we are nowhere near prepared to deal with these issues. So thank you for bringing this, and this sounds like a very good use of our time and efforts as a state. And I did have one question. I got a perfectly good river rolling by my district. They take power out of it at Keokuk Eye. We're not taking power out of it in Missouri. I hope that hydro is part of this analysis because it's all over the state. Yeah, the changes to the integrated resource plan are resource agnostic. So it will allow us to look at all of the potential generation opportunities, even those that are currently contemplated in theory today, but are maybe not yet commercially viable. We wanna change our process to take advantage of understanding those and giving tools in the toolbox for the commission to do an appropriate evaluation and also for our utilities. Well, and as the Corps of Engineers modernizes our locks and dams after Roosevelt built them, we're not pulling power out at Winfields, my understanding. We've got several other locks and dams. I got two in my district. I would love to see us pull power out of that as well. So if there's any way to interface with the feds to say, y'all need to do this while you're modernizing it, help us out with the power needs, really appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representative Cupps, you're recognized. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish Representative Boggs was here to tell you all what he feels of new programs. He picked on my Black Vulture deal a little bit last night. I'm a little grumpy about it. Actually, my question, my real question is piggybacking off Representative Riggs. I know that he has done a lot more deep dives in some of this in the last few years than maybe anybody in this building, let alone this body. But with technology changing the way that it has, I'm not talking the last 20 years. I'm talking the last year. I had the, I will say, the privilege to go to Microsoft in the interim, and my mind was a little bit blown to what has changed from, and you can call it AI. I know a lot of people, a lot of my constituents, they just hate the whole concept of AI running the world, but the reality is some of the technology that has changed in the last year and a half, not the last 20 or 15 or 10, but in the last year and a half, is that something that's being discussed in this particular situation? Because we've got 16 FTE, but you are the one that made maybe one of the best points that's been made to this committee, and you didn't even realize you were doing it. You said, we currently have a report that's being dropped off to the Public Service Commission, and it's out of date by the time that we get it, right, just because of the antiquated nature and the way that it's prepared. Well, we sure don't want to be doing anything that would be similar in nature from, hey, is the rest of the world passing us by in the technology that they are using to stand up something like this while we're doing it the way that we should, and full disclosure, that we should have done 15 years ago, but we didn't do 15 years ago, and so now, are there people out there that provide these services as contractors that have technology that would, as opposed to us standing this up at 16 perpetual FTE, that it would be wiser for us to look at some of those avenues? Is that something that's even being discussed in the situation? Yeah, it's certainly something we're discussing. As you indicated, I mean, the dynamics have changed rapidly. The average economic development project just a couple years ago was about three megawatts. The current economic development project today, on average, exceeds over 180 megawatts, so that's a drastic increase. Our Department of Economic Development has an analysis of, or not an analysis, they provided us a list of projects that they kind of have in the pipeline from site selectors that could possibly come to Missouri. There are projects in that list that exceed 1,100 megawatts, and just to give everybody a sense of size and scale, that's the size of Callaway, and so we have to change everything about what we do. This is not a one-time process that we would have. It's an ongoing process, so in the integrated resource planning framework that we've established, we set the parameters by which the utilities are gonna do an evaluation of their integrated resource plans, all the different metrics that they're gonna use, and then each utility comes in on a rolling basis. These are massive undertakings, so it's not a one-time thing. We cannot accomplish what we need to accomplish on a one-time basis. We have to change what we do, we have to change what we do now, and we have to change what we do going forward. Keep us in the loop. I think that we're taking the right approach of first step is to acknowledge the problem, right? So we know that we gotta do something different, but keep. The point from yourself and Representative Chappell in regards to taking a look at an opportunity about what we're doing and right-sizing it, we're gonna continue to do that as we go forward, knowing we're changing how we do business today to something totally different, and we wanna be in a position to constantly reevaluate that with that mindset. And to bring it full circle, I think technology, whether we like it or not, is gonna play a bigger part in much of that than we ever even fathomed in the past. So I appreciate you, thank you. Okay, appreciate that. I actually wanna take us back to 188, and I didn't realize we'd gotten to 195 and you got to 200, and we had questions about that, but now that we're concluded with that, so 188 is the core, and then 195 is the NDI for the PS appropriation increase. So we got a very, you know, just here's the core, here's the NDI, but wanna get into that a little bit more. And if you can help me understand here, because if you look on the core, and then so on page 189, you know, FY 24, we lapsed 1.1 million, lapsed more in 23, more in 22. And so, you know, that would almost suggest that maybe an NDI isn't needed. And so help me understand kind of what's changed and why we need $1.4 million now where we haven't previously. You're not asking for any FTE, you're only asking for PS. And so, well, I'm about to ask more questions, but I'll just start there. Help me just understand a little bit better. Yeah, Mr. Chairman, Lloyd Wilson, Director of Administration for the Public Service Commission. Starting in the year 2020 when the COVID pandemic started, we lost staff and had a very difficult time hiring staff. We could not compete in the market for special engineers and attorneys. We had a large number of vacancies that contributed to these lapses. Since that time, and recently in the last year and a half, that's turned around 180 degrees, and we are actually having very good luck hiring the professional staff that we need. And our projected lapse on these numbers for FY 25, we're gonna only lapse around $40,000 in personal services this year. And we're gonna lapse less than $100,000 in E&E is what my projection is this year. So drastically different. Is your microphone on there? Is the green light illuminated? Okay, maybe if you just get a little closer, I have people telling me they can't hear you. All right, and I do, I didn't mention it, but you look on page 192 of the core and FY 25 actuals, it appears that that's, you're gonna get a lot closer to 16 than you ever have. But you're not asking for any FTE. So if I'm hearing you and kind of reading between the lines, over the last couple years, you cannibalized20, 30 FTE to retain staff or to pay people what you needed to get them in the door, and so now you've got, you're going to lapse whatever, 20, 30 FTE, but you don't have the dollars to support them, and so now you need the dollars to fully staff. Is that what I'm looking at here? That's what's happening? Correct, and I think the number is 17 FTE that we have idle. Okay, so 17, and so this is going to be to basically allocate to those 17 positions. Yes, able to fill the vacancies that we have. Can you provide me, I mean you've got a very specific amount here, I assume you have a spend plan then, I mean I don't know, is that bumping up to, you know, closer to 100,000 than 50? Do you have like what the salaries would be or the job classes? Could you provide that as a follow-up? Okay, that'd be great. I certainly appreciate that. And that adjustment, that adjustment is to align with the statutory cap, so the appropriation authority matches with the funds produced by the statute. Okay, help me understand that, what does that even mean? I don't, what is a statutory cap? Are you talking about like with the utilities again or what? Yeah, there's a, the statutory cap from the assessment produces a pretty solid consistent revenue amount, and we want to align with that cap. But then that brings me back to my other thing about this Power Mo deal, how do you ever get to do that until you change the law, or you probably don't? If we don't change the law, we can't do Power Mo, I mean we can't. You're going to be up against the cap. We could go and and change our integrated resource planning rules, but it's ultimately not going to change the net result of our planning process, because it's only regulatory and we don't have enough tools in the toolbox with that current structure. I understand. Okay, thank you for that. I think we're 203, and I think we can get finished here before we have to recess. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, page 203, this is the Relay Missouri Program and Equipment Distribution Program. Missouri Public Service Commission has a statutory responsibility providing a statewide dual party relay system to enable deaf, hearing impaired, and speech impaired persons use of the telephone network. Page 208, Legal Expense Fund Transfer. This transfer appropriation provides funds from the department's core budget to the state legal expense fund for the payment of claims, premiums, and expenses. That, Mr. Chairman, that concludes our presentation of the budget book. Okay, that'll conclude the fiscal year 2026 budget request from the Department of Commerce and Insurance. We thank you for being with us today. I appreciate you, and I hope you have a good rest of your day. Of course, we're approaching the 10 o'clock hour. We're going to have to go up to the floor for a session. Not sure how long we'll be in today. We'll come back with the Missouri Department of Labor Industrial Relations upon adjournment. We'll say 10 minutes upon adjournment. Just give people a couple minutes, try to get down here, and we'll start up, you know, almost immediately upon adjournment. But we'll say 10 minutes upon adjournment. Whenever that is, we'll come back, and we still have, of course, Missouri Department of Labor Industrial Relations and the Department of Economic Development that we will finish up today. And with that being said, again, we will stand now in recess until 10 minutes subsequent to adjournment. Thank you.